Notes

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/

— CONCERT —
5pm Sunday 7 October 2012 (first Sunday in October)
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.KNCsydney.org

tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
devoted to works of
FRANZ SCHUBERT (1797-1828)
Impromptu in G flat
Op90 No3 D899
piano Murray Brown
5’

Five Lieder
(1) Meeres Stille (2) Suleika (3) Der Musensoh
(4) Nacht und Traume (5) Sehnsucht
mezzo-soprano Jo Burton piano Murray Brown
25’

— INTERVAL —

Trio No 2 in E-flat
first three movements
(1) Allegro (2) Andante con moto
(3) Scherzo & Trio - Allegro moderato
violin George Carrard cello Robyn Godfrey
piano Murray Brown
30’

— REFRESHMENTS —
concert organisers Murray Brown and George Carrard
The manager and volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
provide light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and charge $10
entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre

Five Lieder
‘Lied, plural lieder, is a German word literally meaning "song". It
usually describes the setting of romantic German poems to music,
especially during the nineteenth century. Among English speakers,
"lied" is often used interchangeably with "art song" to encompass works
that the tradition has inspired in other languages. The poetry forming
the basis for lieder often centers upon pastoral themes, or themes of
romantic love.’ Quoted from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lied.
For words and translations, see attached sheet.

Piano Trio No 2 in E-flat Op100 D929
This piano trio, dated November 1827, was first performed at a private
party in January 1828 to celebrate the engagement (by some accounts
the wedding) of one of Schubert’s school friends. At times it has a
ländler flavour, which is appropriate for a party and would have
appealed to his friends. It was among the few of Schubert’s late major
compositions that he heard performed and which were published
before his death. Among others who held Schubert’s music in very
high regard, Brahms (1833-1897) would have helped the movement for
posthumous publication.
The Allegro is quite long, but holds interest with its inventive patterns
and changes of key. It opens in a manner conventional at the time,
but develops in a way that would have surprised Mozart and probably
Beethoven. At the request of the publisher, Schubert shortened his
original.
The Andante con moto could have the flavour of a funeral march, but
Schubert’s instruction “con moto” takes it out of that category. It is
extremely well known and has been used in at least six films, notably
Stanley Kubrick's Barry Lyndon.
The Scherzo Allegro moderato unfolds canonically; even when the exact
imitation evaporates, the spirit of friendly emulation remains intact.
There are various interpretations of the Trio. Some make it uniformly
robust. We follow Schubert closely, who marked its opening with
alternating emphatic (sforzando) and soft (piano) chords with a robust
(forte) version occurring later. As usual the Trio is followed by a short
version of the Scherzo.

The players decided that including the last movement would make the
work too long for this concert. It is marked Allegro moderato and
combines a rondo with reminiscences of the other movements.
Perhaps even Schubert did not expect this Piano Trio to hold the full
attention of the audience. After all it was intended for a wedding or
engagement party.
Some of the above taken from
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piano_Trio_No._2_(Schubert) and
http://classicalmusicmayhem.freeforums.org/schubert-piano-trios-d898-and-d-929-t1702.html

Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
www.KNCsydney.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 7 October 2012
“Truly in Schubert there is the divine spark.” – Anton Schindler (17951864) reporting words of Beethoven spoken in 1827.

To get information on future concerts,
(1) go to http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”
(2) click on “Concerts” in the navigation panel
(3) click on “Concert Programs”, choose date and click on “program”.
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, write to
membership@acms-sydney.org
or ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 209

5pm

