Amateur Chamber Music Society Inc
http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
— CONCERT —
5pm Sunday 6 May 2012 (first Sunday in May)
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.KNCsydney.org
tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
FAURE Dolly Suite Op56
transcribed for Flute Clarinet and Piano trio by Michael Webster
(1) Berceuse (2) Mi-a-Ou (3) Le Jardin de Dolly (4) Kitty-Valse
(5) Tendresse (6) Le pas Espagnol
flute Richard Tardif clarinet Lindsay Wanstall
piano Sue Butler
20’
MARTINU Sextet H174
(1) Preludium: Poco andante (2) Adagio
(3) Scherzo: Allegro vivo - Divertimento 1
(4) Blues - Divertimento 2 (5) Finale
flute Cathy Wainwright oboe Freya Bailes
clarinet Lindsay Wanstall
bassoons Petrina Slaytor and Joe Wolfe piano Ji-Hyun Kim
15'’
— INTERVAL —
DVORAK Trio No4 in E minor Op90 “Dumky”
(1) Lento maestoso - Allegro (2) Poco adagio - Vivace non troppo
(3) Andante - Vivace non troppo
(4) Andante moderato (quasi tempo di marcia) - Allegretto scherzando
(5) Allegro (6) Lento maestoso - Vivace
violin Cameron Hough cello Benjamin Avanzi piano Ji-Hyun Kim
35’
— REFRESHMENTS —
concert organiser Ji-Hyun Kim
The manager and volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
provide light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and charge $10
entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre

Program Notes
FAURE Dolly Suite Op56
The Dolly Suite is a collection of pieces for piano duet by Gabriel Fauré. It
consists of short pieces written or revised between 1893 and 1896, to mark the
birthdays and other events in the life of the daughter of the composer's mistress,
the singer Emma Bardac. Her daughter, Hélène Bardac, was known to her family
as ‘Dolly’ . The first public performance was given in 1898.
Usually Fauré disliked whimsical titles but these pieces, as personal gifts, were
different. A couple of titles need explanation. The second piece Mi-a-ou derives
its title from Dolly’s attempts to say her brother’s name – Raoul. The Kitty valse
is after the pet dog Ketty – the publisher misunderstood the title.

MARTINU Sextet H174
Bohislav Martinu was born in Bohemia in 1890, the son of a bellringer and
watchman. He composed from an early age, but failed at the Prague
conservatorium. He worked hard on his own, and later studied in Paris with
Albert Roussel and composed this sextet there in 1929. He wrote a huge amount
of music, including 6 symphonies, 5 piano concerti, 7 string quartets, 14 operas
and a large number of other orchestral, vocal and choral works. He died in 1959
a clinic in Liestal Switzerland where I once broke my knee.
This sextet is described as having echoes of both Bohemian music and jazz
elements. It is the only work ever written for this unusual combination.

DVORAK Trio No4 in E minor Op90 “Dumky”
The Dumky Trio is the last and best known of Dvorak’s piano trios. "Dumky" is
the plural of "Dumka" which can be translated as "a fleeting thought". The Trio is
made up of six movements, each a "dumka". Dumky, therefore refers to the work
as a whole. Dvorak translated the idea of fleeting thoughts into music by
contrasting slow elegiac sections with fast impassioned ones.
This Trio departs from the typical form of piano trios in that it does not contain a
movement in sonata form or one consisting of variations. Rather, it is a work
suffused with the simple beauty and colorful quality of folk song and dance, yet
the melodies are Dvorak’s own. The Trio was composed toward the end of the
composer’s nationalistic period. The work was premiered in Prague on April 11,
1891 (with Dvorak as pianist) at a concert at which the composer received an
honorary doctorate from Prague’s Charles University. The work was so well
received that it was presented on a forty concert tour, just before Dvorak left for
the United States to head the National Conservatory of Music in New York City
where he would encourage American composers to explore their own folk music
as a source for inspiration. The Trio was published while Dvorak was in America
and was proofread by none other than his friend, Johannes Brahms. (Program
notes sourced from http://www.fuguemasters.com/dvorak.html)

Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
www.KNCsydney.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 6 May 2012
5pm

To get information on future concerts,
(1) go to http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”
(2) click on “Concerts” in the navigation panel
(3) click on “Concert Programs”, choose date and click on “program”.
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, write to
membership@acms-sydney.org
or ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 209

