Amateur Chamber Music Society Inc

— CONCERT —
— PROGRAM —
BEETHOVEN String Quartet Op18 No2
(1) Allegro (2) Adagio cantabile
(3) Scherzo - Allegro (4) Allegro molto quasi presto
violins Jenny Allison and Judy Mitchell
viola Eve Salinas cello Anne Stevens
25’

BEETHOVEN Sonata in F major Op24 "Spring"
(1) Allegro
(2) Adagio molto espressivo
(3) Scherzo - Allegro molto
(4) Rondo: Allegro ma non troppo
violin George Carrard piano Murray Brown
21’

— INTERVAL —

SHOSTAKOVICH Piano Quintet in G Minor Op57
(1) Prelude: Lento (2) Fugue: Adagio (3) Scherzo: Allegretto
(4) Intermezzo: Lento (5) Finale: Allegretto
violins Derek Davies and Jenny Allison viola Barbara Robinson
cello Jane Smith piano Marjorie Hystek

- Notes Ludwig van BEETHOVEN (1770-1827) Sonata in F major Op24 "Spring"
Beethoven composed his second string quartet between 1798 and 1800 and
his famous Pathetique sonata in 1800. A year later, as a young 31 year old,
well established as a pianist and composer in Vienna, he wrote the sonata
for piano and violin, later nicknamed “Spring”. This sonata has an overall
mood of optimism and the nickname is appropriate. In that year, there is
no premonition of the decline in Beethoven’s health – yet it was only a year
later that he wrote the Heiligenstadt Testament to his brothers telling of his
depression and deafness.
The Spring Op24 in F major contrasts in mood to the more dramatic Op23
in A minor. The two sonatas are a pair, showing two of Beethoven’s moods
– he intended them to be Op23 No1 and No2, but the publisher named
them Op23 and Op24. Both sonatas were commissioned by Count Moritz
von Fritz, who organised their première for a select audience at his very upmarket address, the Fries palace. Moritz von Fritz had married into the not
too welcoming Austrian aristocracy, was nominally the head of the banking
firm Fries and Co, and was in the process of frittering away his father’s
fortune, luckily spending a significant amount on the arts. His late father,
who had become one of the richest men in the Austrian Empire as a banker
and manufacturer of brassware and cotton goods, also had aristocratic
aspirations: he had built the Fries palace opposite the Hofburg palace,
home of the Austrian Emperor [http://www.peter-sheppardskaerved.com/2009/11/beethoven-sonatas-op-23-and-op-24/].

30’

— REFRESHMENTS —
Concert Organiser: George Carrard
The manager and volunteer staff of the
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
provide light refreshments (wine, juice, fruit, cheese, biscuits) and
charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors) to cover costs and
to raise funds for the Centre.

The sonata has a refined quality, appropriate to the von Fritz salon, and is
pleasant, elegant and cheerful. It is in four movements – a change from the
conventional three-movement sonata of the time. The first movement
Allegro opens with a much loved gentle lyrical theme, followed by a robust
second theme – a reversal of the convention. The accompaniment to the
opening theme is fairly nondescript but, in the second slow movement
Adagio molto espressivo he recalls the gentle opening theme and develops
the accompaniment into something more significant. The third movement
Scherzo - Allegro molto is very short, and is a break from the ideas of the two
preceding movements - the violin playfully mimicking the piano off the beat.
The finale Rondo: Allegro ma non troppo was at the time, the longest and
most elaborate of that form in a violin sonata. It has a genial air like the
first movement.

SHOSTAKOVICH (1906–1975) Piano Quintet in G Minor Op57
Living well into the 20th century made Shostakovich one of the most
celebrated composers of that century. During the 2nd World War he had a
difficult relationship with Stalin and the Government although he remained
staunchly attached to Russia. He was influenced by Prokoviev and
Stravinsky while his compositions also show a hybrid style with sharp
contrasts and elements of grotesque characteristics.
Among his works are 15 symphonies and six concerti. Although a brilliant
pianist he wrote only one piano quintet, two piano trios an early set of
preludes and later twenty four ‘Preludes and Fugues.’
During the height of the Stalinist regime he turned to film music and light
jazz. The arrangement of Tea for Two is very quirky and popular.

Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli tel: 9922 4428

www.KNCsydney.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
5pm Sunday 3 June 2012
16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli

For information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org/ and click on “Concerts” in Navigation panel
on the left hand side.
All chamber music players are welcome to join the Amateur Chamber Music
Society. If interested, go to the website, click on “Join Us”, download an
application form and post to ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584,
Balgowlah NSW 2093.

