— CONCERT —
2:30pm 14 April 2013
“Waterbrook” 19 Wyralla Rd, Yowie Bay

- PROGRAM LISZT Concert Étude No3 D-flat major S144
piano Ivan Foo
7'

MENDELSSOHN Sonata in F major (1838)
(1) Allegro vivace (2) Adagio (3) Assai vivace
violin George Carrard piano Christine Edwards
22’

MOZART Rondo in A minor K511
RACHMANINOV Elegie in E-flat minor
No1 of Fantasy Pieces Op3
piano Neil Semmler
10+6’

INTERVAL

RAVEL Eight Noble and Sentimental Waltzes
(1) Modéré – très franc (2) Assez lent – avec une expression
intense (3) Modéré (4) Assez animé (5) Presque lent – dans
un sentiment intime (6) Assez vif (7) Moins vif
(8) Epilogue: lent
piano John Keller
15’

FRANCK Fourth Movement from
Sonata in A Major
(violin part arranged for cello)
(4) Allegretto poco mosso
cello Sharon Maennl

piano Neil Semmler
7’

Notes
LISZT (1811-1886) Concert Study No3 in D-flat major S144
Publishers, not Liszt, gave this work a nickname A Sigh to emphasise that it is a concert
piece, not just a study. It is very popular and has been used in seven films, including
Shine.

MENDELSSOHN (1809-1847) Sonata in F major (1838)
Felix Mendelssohn was born in Hamburg, Germany, into a distinguished and affluent
family of bankers, intellectuals and artists. A child prodigy, he published a piano
quartet Op1, with a beautiful slow movement, written when he was thirteen years old.
By fourteen he had written 12 sinfonias for strings – one of which was recently recorded
by the Australian Chamber Orchestra. At 17 he was in his third year at Berlin
University studying philosophy under Hegel and publishing his much loved Overture to
Midsummer Nights Dream. A constant stream of work continued throughout his
relatively short and very busy life of 38 years. At 26, he moved to Leipzig to take charge
of the Gewandhaus Orchestra. There, he met the 25-year-old Schumann, whose family
lived there, and they became friends. Seven years later, Mendelssohn helped
Schumann with a revision of the scherzo of his celebrated piano quintet, performed here
last year. As Gewandhaus director, Mendelssohn championed both historical and
modern works - of the former he is particularly well known for reviving interest in the
music of Bach.
At 29, he wrote his Sonata in F Major (1838) to be presented today. Mendelssohn did
not publish it and it has no opus number, so it is usually defined by the date. Famous
violinist Yehudi Menuhin was given a photostat copy of the original manuscript,
performed it in 1952 and had it published it in 1953. No evidence has been found that
this sonata was ever played before Menuhin’s “premiere”, except perhaps by
Mendelssohn and a friend (or family member) in the year it was written. It was in 1838
that Mendelssohn started work on his famous violin concerto, which he completed six
years later. Did Mendelssohn keep the sonata from publication in case he wanted to
use some of the ideas in his concerto? In the event there are a few similarities between
the concerto and the sonata.
The sonata is an extremely ambitious work, concerto-like for both instruments while
remaining true to the form. The result is both coherent and exhilarating. The first
movement, Allegro vivace, is fraught with drama from the beginning. The piano begins
with a statement of dotted-rhythm sequences moving up. Then the violin takes over the
melody while the piano ripples. The two climb and fall as they trade melody and
accompaniment back and forth. A reflective Adagio follows.1 Mendelssohn led a very
busy life and busyness is a word that comes to mind especially when playing the last
movement Assai vivace – the music scurries along – there is hardly time to breathe!
About Mendelssohn’s interest in Bach: there are passages in this work that are
reminiscent of the sequences of modulations in Bach’s Brandenburg Concerto No3,
recently performed at Waterbrook.

MENDELSSOHN (arr LISZT) On Wings of Song
Op34
piano Neil Semmler
4’

1 http://www.pristineclassical.com/LargeWorks/Chamber/PACM037.php,

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Felix_Mendelssohn,
http://www.laphil.com/philpedia/music/violin-sonata-f-major-felix-mendelssohn.

MOZART (1756-1791) Rondo in A minor K311 (1787)
A Rondo in music is a piece made from a recurring tune or theme, interspersed with
other musical ideas.
This Rondo has a theme that becomes more improvisatory and expressive with each
recurrence. Even the other ideas/sections, after optimistic beginnings, become rather
unsettled. The work concludes with a recitative-like coda where the opening tune is
restated in a more sombre context.

19 Wyralla Rd, Yowie Bay (near Miranda)

Mozart’s father fell in March 1787, just a month or two before he died. The Rondo K311
is dated 11 March 1787. Perhaps the impending loss of his father inspired this
emotional and moving piece of music.2 NS

Chamber Music Concert

RACHMANINOV (1873-1943) Elegie in E-flat minor (1892)
The Elegy is the first of five piano solo pieces from Fantasy Pieces (Morceaux de
Fantaisie) Op3 that the 19-year-old Rachmaninov composed in the year that he
graduated from the Moscow conservatorium. The work shows remarkable maturity.

Waterbrook

2:30pm Sunday 14 April 2013

RAVEL (1875-1937) Eight Noble and Sentimental Waltzes
Maurice Ravel unashamedly imitated good models, in this case Schubert’s Valses nobles
Op77 and Valses sentimentales Op50, in which Ravel strove to imitate Schubert’s clarity
of writing. At the beginning of the score, he added a quotation from a novel of 1904,
“the delightful and always novel pleasure of a useless occupation”. This short
description holds the key to understanding the piece. This coy recognition of “art for
art’s sake,” typifies the attitude of many in the years just before World War I.
The eighth waltz is a résumé of the previous waltzes. The music fades quietly into
silence and is marked “en se perdant” (losing itself).3

FRANCK (1822-1890) Fourth Movement from Sonata in A-major
Although Franck was 63 years old when he wrote the sonata, it belongs to the group of
his most famous works, all written when he was in his 60s. He continually revised his
compositions, producing only a few, but all beautifully crafted.
In the last movement, the main melody is heard in canonic imitation between the
instruments, and recurs in a rondo-like manner to a triumphant and soaring
conclusion. It has been described as "a magnificent example of canonic writing, simple,
majestic and irresistible in its ample, beautifully wrought proportions".4

MENDELSSOHN (arr LISZT) On Wings of Song Op34
Originally written when Mendelssohn was 26, probably as a piano piece, adapted two
years later as a song based on a romantic poem of the same name by Heine. The work
quickly became popular, and its gorgeous melodic line makes it an ideal candidate for
instrumental arrangement, especially by violinists.

Cost $10 (all tickets) includes refreshments
Producers: Joan Bolton and George Carrard
Publicity: Sonja Mallam

2 http://www.mozartproject.org/compositions/ko_86_91.html

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rondo_for_Piano_No._3_% 28Mozart% 29
3 http://www.richard-dowling.com/RavelVNS.html
4 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Violin_Sonata_(Franck)#Structure

