Join Us – Free Playing Day
The ACMS organises a playing day every other month where members
get together.
We also have:
• a membership register for contacting other players
• a comprehensive library of chamber music,
• regular opportunities to play with other members and
• opportunities to perform works to a public audience.

e
l
a
P
s
u
r
o
r
F
e
c
i
s
u
M
r
mb e

ACMS
: Cha

For more information or to attend a free playing day, we can be contacted:
Website
Email		

www.acms-australia.org
membership.secretary@acms-australia.org

Saturday 9 March 2013 3pm

The concert will conclude at approximately 5pm

the
Staging successful events since 1911

From The President
The ACMS is an association of people
who love playing chamber music.
We hope to be able to provide a range of music for your
enjoyment, some familiar, some which will surprise.
Music is a complicated business. It is not enough to love it in
private. It is intended to be shared with an audience.
The ACMS offers a range of benefits to its members. The
primary reason for membership is that members of the
society have access to a list of players from which they can
form groups to perform particular pieces or to play together
on a regular basis. To encourage interest in new music and
to get to know other performers the Society holds regular
get-togethers called Playing Days, usually five in a year,
where players are allocated groups and have access to the
Society’s extensive library for music. The key event of our
year is the 3-day music camp usually held in late January at
the Conservatorium of Wollongong. We also have regular
opportunities to perform at Sunset Concerts at the Kirribilli
Neighbourhood Centre, and now we can move on from
that test bed to enjoy the opportunity to perform at the
Independent Theatre. For some people getting together to
play music is what it is all about, for others a performance
provides a focus and the satisfaction of having an audience.

The ACMS would like to thank –
The Elizabethan Theatre Trust for making this series of concerts
possible.
Sounds like Sydney at www.soundslikesydney.com.au for advertising
for us.
And you, for your patronage.

Susan Butler
President, ACMS
2

15

CONTRAST TRIO
This is the debut performance for the Contrast Trio, which was formed
in December 2012. All group members have academic or businessrelated vocations which are not related to music. However, they share a
common desire to explore the chamber music repertoire.

Program
Claude DEBUSSY
(1862 – 1918)

Piano Trio in G Major
Andantino con moto allegro
Scherzo intermezzo
Andante espressivo
Finale appassionato
APRÈS-MIDI TRIO – Vince Allan (violin),
Robyn Mansfield (cello), Kian Woo (piano)

Paul Agricole GENIN
(1832 – 1903)

Grand Duo Concertante Op. 51

Joseph HAYDN
(1732 – 1809)

String Quartet No 25 in C Op. 20 No. 2
Moderato
Capriccio: Adagio
Minuet : Allegretto
Fuga a quattro Soggetti

Tracey Tsang (violin), Benjamin Avanzi (cello), Benjamin Chan (piano)
Tracey Tsang was formerly the concert master of the SBS Radio & Television
Youth Orchestra and has enjoyed success in many eisteddfods. Passionate about
maintaining music as a hobby, she continues to enjoy performing regularly and has
in recent years performed in numerous concerts supporting charities and notfor-profit causes. Career-wise, Tracey is a full-time post-doctoral research fellow,
conducting medical research into child and adolescent health. She is additionally a
long-term practitioner of martial arts, which she enjoys in her spare time.

AMBROSIA QUARTET – Jenny Allison
(violin), Judy Mitchell (violin), Eve Salinas
(viola), Anne Stevens (cello)

INTERVAL

Benjamin Avanzi was born in Switzerland, where he grew up and studied cello
performance and chamber music in the conservatories of Zürich and Lausanne,
respectively. In a previous life, he was cello solo of several (non professional)
orchestras and performed regularly as soloist with semi-professional orchestras.
Benjamin is a Swiss actuary. After a few years of consulting and being CEO and
Chairman of the Board of a large pension fund especially designed for artists in
Switzerland, he completed a PhD in actuarial studies is now a Senior Lecturer at
UNSW.

Claude DEBUSSY
(1862 – 1918)
(arranged Webster)

Benjamin Chan has been playing both the piano and violin from the ages of six
and seven respectively, and held a music scholarship at Sydney Grammar School.
Benjamin was also a member of the SBS Youth Orchestra, where he and Tracey met
and the two have been in collaboration for a number of years in many different
forms of chamber music. Outside of performing and exploring all kinds of different
music, Benjamin has recently completed his Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor
of Arts from the University of Sydney, and has an extensive background in retail
management and sales.

Felix MENDELSSOHN
(1809 – 1847)

14

THE DOPPLER EFFECT – Cathy Wainwright
(flute), Cathy Fraser (flute), Gail Earl (piano)

Petite Suite
En bateau
Cortege
Menuet
Ballet
JIRILI TRIO – Richard Tardif (flute), Lindsay
Wanstall (clarinet), Ji-Hyun Kim (piano)

Piano Trio No. 1 in D minor Op. 49
Molto allegro agitato
Andante con moto tranquillo
Scherzo. Leggiero e vivace
Finale. Allegro assai appassionato
CONTRAST TRIO – Tracey Tsang (violin),
Benjamin Avanzi (cello), Benjamin Chan (piano)

Coming up in 2013

JIRILI TRIO

ACMS: Chamber Music For Pleasure
The Independent Theatre, North Sydney

See a selection of the works to be performed –
Saturday June 15, 3pm
Johannes BRAHMS – Sonata for Clarinet and Piano Op. 120
Franz SCHUBERT – String Quartet No 13 in A Minor D804 (Rosamunde)
Wolfgang Amadeus MOZART – Sonata for Violin and Piano K301
Bohuslav MARTINŮ – Trio for Flute, Cello and Piano H. 300
Saturday August 17, 3pm
Dimitri SHOSTAKOVICH – Piano Quintet in G minor Op. 57
Robert SCHUMANN – Three Fantasy Pieces (Fantasiestücke) Op. 73
Franz SCHUBERT – Piano Trio No.2 in Eb major D929 Op. 100
Elena KATS-CHERNIN – The Breakfast Suite

Ji-Hyun Kim started learning the piano at a young age, and stopped
playing when she was a teenager in pursuit of other interests. She
rediscovered her love of music through ACMS and meeting other likeminded players who share her passion. Other than music, she spends a
hefty sum of her waking hours working as an analyst at Optus.
Richard Tardif learned the basics of flute playing at primary school and
then abandoned the instrument for 30 years. He has since taken it up
again, encouraged by the possibilities of playing chamber music with
the ACMS. He also plays with the Latin Salsa band Musica Linda, which
performs regularly at various Sydney venues.
Lindsay Wanstall studied clarinet and piano at the Sydney
Conservatorium of Music, graduating with B Mus Ed. She taught music
in schools, soon realising her passion was for instrumental music
teaching. She still teaches private students and trains a youth band. She
returned to her own playing after raising her family.

Saturday October 19, 3pm
Franz SCHUBERT – Five Lieder, Shepherd On The Rock
Claude DEBUSSY – Songs
Tickets
Adults $30
Concession $26
Student $22

Richard Tardif (flute), Ji-Hyun Kim (piano), Lindsay Wanstall (clarinet)

3

13

The Music

AMBROSIA QUARTET

Claude DEBUSSY (1862 – 1918)
Piano Trio in G Major
Andantino con moto allegro
Scherzo intermezzo
Andante espressivo
Finale appassionato

Standing from left to right are Jenny Allison, Judy Mitchell and Eve Salinas. Anne
Stevens (seated).

Jenny Allison (1st violin), Judy Mitchell (2nd violin), Eve Salinas (viola)
and Anne Stevens (cello) have been playing together for over twenty
years, while also pursuing their own professional careers and raising
families.

In 1879, Madame Nadezhda von Meck, a
wealthy Russian woman best known today
for her patronage of Pyotr Tchaikovsky,
asked Professor Antoine Marmontel from
the Paris Conservatoire to recommend
a pupil to accompany her in Russia as a chamber musician. Debussy,
having recently won first prize in the score-reading class, took the
position, and in the summer of 1880, travelled with von Meck and her
family and friends on a tour of Europe and Russia. In was on this tour
that the 18 year old Debussy composed his Trio en sol majeur (Piano
Trio in G) for piano, violin and cello. Being such a youthful work, one
does not hear the distinctive Impressionistic sound world that Debussy
was to later develop. Instead, one can hear influences of Schumann,
Franck and the music of the Parisian salons. Even though it is his
earliest known instrumental work, it is a relatively recent discovery and
was only published in 1986.

It has been twenty years of much pleasure derived from making music
together as amateur musicians. They are also long-standing members of
the ACMS.

The trio is filled with rich harmonies and flowing melodies, especially in
the beautiful Andante third movement. The first movement is the most
complex and longest, with various changes of character and tempo, tied
together by the recurring melody that is first heard in the violin and
exchanged frequently between the instruments. The second movement
is a playful scherzo that combines chord blocks in the piano with
frequent pizzicato and intricate rhythmic figures in the strings. The
driving, chromatic pulse and catchy theme of the finale could have come
straight out of an action scene from a James Bond movie!

12

5

Paul Agricole GENIN (1832 – 1903)

THE DOPPLER EFFECT

Grand Duo Concertante Op. 51 for two flutes and piano

Cathy Fraser, Cathy Wainwright and Gail Earl met through the ACMS
and have been playing and performing together for over twelve years.
They were initially attracted to the extensive and virtuosic 19th century
works for two flutes and piano composed by the flute playing brothers
Franz and Karl Doppler, and have continued to develop their repertoire
with the works of other composers.

Genin was a French flautist and composer who was born in Avignon and
spent all his adult life in Paris. He studied at the Paris Conservatoire
with the top flautists of the day, Tulou and Dorus, and subsequently
held posts as the Principal Flute of the Theatre Italien Orchestra and the
Colonne Orchestra in Paris.
Genin is best known as the composer of the much loved Carnival
of Venice Variations, originally written for flute and piano, but since
transcribed as a show piece for just about every instrument. Although
Genin wrote over sixty works for the flute only about ten have survived
to the present day, most seem to have fallen into obscurity.
Genin is also credited with being one of the first composers to write for
the new instrument of his day, the saxophone, invented around 1840.
The style of the Grand Duo Concertante clearly reflects Genin’s operatic
background. It contains all the essential elements of a good opera
– lush melodies, a conversational style, gypsy tunes, a waltz and a
showy cadenza for the two flutes.

When competing in the Sydney Eisteddfod many years ago, it was
necessary to name their ensemble, and so The Doppler Effect was born.
This name reflected not only the music they were performing, but also
the doubling up of the two Cathys on two flutes, as did the two Doppler
brothers who toured extensively throughout Europe. The name of the
ensemble is also a play on the German word doppel meaning duplicate
or double. Another curious coincidence is that all three members of the
group were born in the same year, within five months of each other in
fact.
The Doppler Effect has competed successfully in the McDonald’s
Performing Arts Challenge Chamber Ensemble sections, and provided
entertainment at the finals of the New South Wales Doctors Orchestra
Instrumental Scholarship run by the Sydney Eisteddfod.
The two Cathys and Gail hope to continue enjoying new works for this
combination of instruments for many years to come.

6

Cathy Fraser (flute), Gail Earl (piano), Cathy Wainwright (flute)
11

The Performers

Franz Joseph HAYDN (1732 – 1809)
String Quartet No. 25 in C, Op. 20 No. 2

APRÈS-MIDI TRIO

Moderato
Capriccio: Adagio
Minuet : Allegretto
Fuga a quattro Soggetti
Franz Joseph Haydn was an Austrian
composer, one of the most prolific
and prominent of the Classical period.
He is often called the “Father of the
Symphony” and “Father of the String
Quartet” because of his important
contributions to these forms. He was
also instrumental in the development
of the piano trio and in the evolution of
sonata form. Source: Wikipedia
Vincent Allan (violin), Kian Woo (piano), Robyn Mansfield (cello)

The Après-Midi Trio began playing together last year, brought together by a
mutual enjoyment of chamber music and a complementary combination of
interests and experiences. They enjoy trying new repertoire, and the Debussy
Piano Trio is the first work they have performed together. The trio is named
after Debussy’s Prélude à l’après-midi d’un faune (Prelude to the Afternoon of a
Faun).
Vince started violin at 3 and piano at 5. He has studied with Goetz Richter at
the Sydney Conservatorium of Music. He teaches violin and viola and runs a
string shop in Epping called Vivaldis.
Kian asked his mum if he could play the piano when he was 8 and has been
playing, on and off, ever since. His favourite composer is Mozart. Kian has
been playing chamber music regularly since joining the ACMS a few years ago.
He works as a software developer.
Robyn’s musical interest was sparked at an early age with singing and piano,
but she discovered her great love, the cello, at age 13. Most recently she
has played cello in a range of contexts, including chamber groups, the NSW
Doctors Orchestra and various musical theatre productions. Robyn enjoys
arranging popular and other quirky tunes for chamber groupings, and by day,
works as a science researcher.
10

This is the second quartet of a set of
six written in 1772 and known as
the Sun Quartets. They have been
authoritatively described as works
exhibiting the full maturity of the Viennese classical style. It is the
cello which states the opening theme of this quartet, with its central
development section accompanied by the rapid semiquavers of the
second violin. The C minor slow movement is placed second, with its
octave opening from all four instruments leading to greater melodic
complexity and elaboration of accompaniment patterns. The C major
Minuet, with its musette drone and contrasting Trio, is followed by
a final Fugue described as a fugue with four subjects, but which is in
fact a double fugue with two countersubjects. It is a movement of great
contrapuntal ingenuity.

7

DEBUSSY (1862 – 1918) arranged WEBSTER

Felix MENDELSSOHN-BARTHOLDY (1809 – 1847)

Petite Suite

Piano Trio No. 1 in D minor, Op 49

En bateau
Cortege
Menuet
Ballet

Molto allegro agitato
Andante con moto tranquillo
Scherzo. Leggiero e vivace
Finale. Allegro assai appassionato

Debussy’s Petite Suite began as a piece for piano, four hands. It has
since been frequently arranged, for orchestra and various chamber
ensembles, and is much loved as one of Debussy’s most appealingly
melodic short pieces.
In its original form for piano, Petite Suite was first performed on
February 2, 1889 by Debussy in collaboration with the pianist-publisher
Jacques Durand. The work has a simple lyricism that contrasts with
much of the composer’s music from the late 1880s, which was marked
by trend-setting harmonies and colours that drew the wrath of
contemporary critics for being “too modernistic.” The piece in any case
is designed to entertain and delight.
There are four separate movements. En bateau, or “In a Boat,” the first
movement, has an exquisite melody that is accompanied by broken
chords that clearly suggest ripples, eddies, and whirlpools in water.
Simple though it may be, this movement actually uses one of the
signature elements of Debussy’s later harmonic style - the whole-tone
scale. The next movement, entitled Cortège, reminds the listener of
a festival parade, a marching band processing past in an exhilarating
rush of musical pageantry. The beautiful Minuet follows, and is pure
musical magic. The Suite’s most memorable movement, it suggests
the musical equivalent of elves at play. In two of its passages, Debussy
treats the melody in parallel tenths, creating an eerie, open sound and
foreshadowing a compositional technique that he was later to exploit
further. The final movement is an energetic, festive dance movement
with the title Ballet.

Felix Mendelssohn’s Piano Trio No.
1 in D minor, Op. 49 was completed
on 23 September 1839 and published
the following year. The work is scored
for a standard piano trio consisting of
violin, cello and piano. The trio is one of
Mendelssohn’s most popular chamber
works and is recognized as one of his
greatest along with his Octet, Op. 20.
During the initial composition of the
work, Mendelssohn took the advice of
a fellow composer, Ferdinand Hiller,
and revised the piano part. The revised
version was in a more romantic,
Schumannesque style with the piano given a more important role in the
trio. Indeed, the revised piece was reviewed by Schumann who declared
Mendelssohn to be “the Mozart of the nineteenth century, the most
illuminating of musicians.”
Source: Wikipedia

Adapted from Symphony Silicon Valley program note

8

9

