- Programme Notes — PROGRAMME —
J.S. Bach Trio Sonata in c minor BWV 1079
‘The Musical Offering’
1. Largo
2. Allegro
3. Andante
4. Allegro
Sally Cousins - flute, Stephen Harvey – violin, Nicholas Stokes - piano

Ross Harris ‘For Eve’s Birthday’ – A Suite for String Quartet

Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750) “The Musical Offering”
This trio sonata is part of set of pieces based on a single musical theme given to him by
Frederick the Great (Frederick II of Prussia), to whom it is dedicated.
Ross Harris For Eve’s Birthday (2012)
Four well known members of the ACMS present this highly personal string quartet, composed
by freelance New Zealand composer, Ross Harris. In 2005-6 Harris was Composer in Residence

1. Birthday Prelude
2. Faln (Falling)
3. Melancolia
4. For Eve
5. Batamt (Tasty)
6. Birthday Postlude
Jenny Allison, Judy Mitchell - violins
Eve Salinas – viola, Anne Stevens - cello

with the Auckland Philharmonia. In 2008 - 2009 he was Composer in Residence at the New

Elgar Romance Op. 62
for Bassoon and Strings (arr. Cramer)

This short Romance was composed for the principal bassoonist of the London Symphony
Orchestra, Edwin F James, who gave the first performance in February 1911 at Hereford, with
the composer conducting.

Petrina Slaytor – bassoon

— INTERVAL —

Debussy ‘Clair De Lune’
Ludwig Sugiri - piano

Takemitsu ‘Between Tides’
Vania Chan – violin, Robyn Godfrey – cello, Nicholas Stokes - piano

Telemann Quartet in d minor for Woodwind and Continuo from
Tafelmusik II
1. Andante
2. Vivace
3. Largo
4. Allegro
Cathy Fraser – flute, Cate Trebeck – oboe, Petrina Slaytor – bassoon, Judith Maynard - piano

— REFRESHMENTS —
Concert Organiser – Nick Stokes
The manager and volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre provide
light refreshments (wine, juice, savouries, fruit).
Entry donation $10 ($5 concession/seniors) to cover costs and to
raise funds for the Centre

Zealand School of Music in Wellington during which he wrote his Symphony No. III. Recently
Ross has had premieres of his Symphony no.4 and Violin Concerto no.1 (with Anthony
Marwood and the New Zealand Symphony Orchestra)
Edward Elgar (1857-1934) Romance

Claude Debussy (1862-1918) Clair De Lune
Highly influencial French composer. Given as a major influence by Toru Takemitsu. Clair De
Lune is the most famous movement from the Suite Bergamasque, published in 1905. Following
this, I’ve asked Ludwig to recite a Japanese poem – he selected ‘Ocean In Spring’ to lead
``smoothly into the next piece.
Toru Takemitsu (1930-1996) Between Tides
This single movement piece was commissioned by the Berliner Festspiele and is dedicated to
Pamela Frank, Yo-Yo Ma and Peter Serkin. Premiered by those players in 1993.
It features heavily the s.e.a theme -the notes Es (Eb),E,A which he used in many of his later
works relating to water and the ocean. It’s structure is similar to that of this programme overall.
Telemann (1681-1767) Tafelmusik
Georg Philipp Telemann was a German composer and a friend of J.S. Bach. Telemann wrote a
wealth of music in this genre, for different ensembles.
Tafelmusik (German: literally, "table-music") is a term used since the mid-16th century for
music played at feasts and banquets, so seems to me a good closer leading into supper.

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

To get information on future concerts
go to http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”)
and click on “Concerts” in the navigation panel
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, write to
membership.secretary@acms-australia.org
or to ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

at the
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.KNCsydney.org

tel: 9922 4428

Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 6 October 2013
5pm

