The concert will conclude
at approximately 5pm

From The President
The ACMS is an association of people
who love playing chamber music.
We hope to be able to provide a range of music for your
enjoyment, some familiar, some which will surprise.
Music is a complicated business. It is not enough to love it in
private. It is intended to be shared with an audience.
The ACMS offers a range of benefits to its members. The
primary reason for membership is that members of the
society have access to a list of players from which they can
form groups to perform particular pieces or to play together
on a regular basis. To encourage interest in new music and
to get to know other performers the Society holds regular
get-togethers called Playing Days, usually five in a year,
where players are allocated groups and have access to the
Society’s extensive library for music. The key event of our
year is the 3-day music camp usually held in late January at
the Conservatorium of Wollongong. We also have regular
opportunities to perform at Sunset Concerts at the Kirribilli
Neighbourhood Centre, and now we can move on from
that test bed to enjoy the opportunity to perform at the
Independent Theatre. For some people getting together to
play music is what it is all about, for others a performance
provides a focus and the satisfaction of having an audience.

Susan Butler
President, ACMS
2

Program
Johannes BRAHMS (1833 – 1897)
Clarinet Sonata No 1 in F minor Op 120
Allegro appassionato
Andante un poco Adagio
Allegretto grazioso
Vivace
Andrew Kennedy (clarinet), Kristofer Spike (piano)

Franz SCHUBERT (1797 – 1828)
String Quartet No 13 in A minor D804 ‘Rosamunde’
Allegro ma non troppo
Andante
Menuetto – Allegretto – Trio
Allegro moderato
Quartet Schupannzigh – Stephen Harvey (violin), Greta Lee (violin),
Daniel Morris (viola), Nicole McVicar (cello)

INTERVAL
Wolfgang Amadeus MOZART (1756 – 1791)
Violin Sonata No 18 in G major K301
Allegro con Spirito
Allegro
Inge Courtney-Haentjes (violin), John Hughes (piano)

Bohuslav MARTINŮ (1890 – 1959)
Trio for Flute, Cello and Piano H300
Poco allegretto
Adagio
Andante – Allegretto scherzando
Riverbend Trio – Richard Tardif (flute), Robyn Godfrey (cello),
Kian Woo (piano)

3

Coming up in 2013

ACMS: Chamber Music For Pleasure
The Independent Theatre, North Sydney

See a selection of the works to be performed –
Saturday August 17, 3pm
Dimitri SHOSTAKOVICH – Piano Quintet in G minor Op 57
Robert SCHUMANN – Three Fantasy Pieces (Fantasiestücke) Op 73
Franz SCHUBERT – Piano Trio No.2 in Eb major D929 Op 100
Saturday October 19, 3pm
Franz SCHUBERT – Five Lieder
Claude DEBUSSY – Songs
Tickets
Adults $30
Concession $26
Student $22
Family (two adults and two chilren) $80
Children under 7 (with an adult) Free

4

About The Music
Johannes BRAHMS (1833 – 1897)
Clarinet Sonata No 1 in F minor Op 120
Allegro appassionato
Andante un poco Adagio
Allegretto grazioso
Vivace
Johannes Brahms (1833-1897) was
wooed out of a very short retirement
by the masterful clarinet playing
of Richard Muhlfield, writing an
incredible final opus of clarinet
chamber music works. The four
movements of this sonata have a highly
traditional pattern of tempi, keys and
structures, beginning with a dark and
dramatic “fast and passionate” sonata
form. The first theme juxtaposes
subtle lilting piano lines with forceful
sweeps from the clarinet, who might
be channeling a desperate soprano in
a romantic-era opera. The second uses
pointed, militaristic dotted rhythms
out of synchronisation with the normal
beats in the bar – this could be her recitative and her plot to win a lover
back. A central section is much more nostalgic and restful, reminiscent
of waves calming after a storm, perhaps dwelling on this woman’s
affections, but then the opening themes return unrelenting.
The second movement is a slow reverie, with gently wending lyrical
songlines and well-grounded harmonies. Imagine the woman weeping
as she believes she might have seen her betrothed for the last time
before their wedding day. The third movement delivers the expected
minuet and trio, the two moods of the same soprano in her youth
– coquettish and carefree to begin, with lightness, quick notes and
adventurous jumps and scales, and then a bit more lovelorn and
5

desperate, with long smooth lines and unexpected notes turning the
atmosphere to grey ambiguity.
Fortunately, such stories as told in sonatas always end happily, with a
rousing rondo! Brahms doesn’t disappoint, giving us a chirpy theme
which could be the triumphant march of a recently married couple out
of a church, accompanied by bells and trumpets. The beauty of rondo
form is that the listener is regularly transported to a more subtle, or
solemn, or stirring musical idea, and then brought back to the happy
original tune. The last two lines of this piece are an especially emotional
and uplifting thing for any clarinetist to perform.

Franz SCHUBERT (1797 – 1828)
String Quartet No 13 in A minor D804
‘Rosamunde’
Allegro ma non troppo
Andante
Menuetto – Allegretto – Trio
Allegro moderato
Schubert was a prolific Viennese
composer, whose compositions include
over 600 songs to the words of 91
poets, nine symphonies and a large
body of solo piano and chamber music.
His musical style is said to bridge the
gap between the late classical and early
romantic periods.
The poet and writer, Helmina von Chézy,
commissioned Schubert to compose
incidental music for her play Rosamunde,
Princess of Cyprus. The play, however,
was not well received lasting only two
performances, and only Schubert’s
musical contribution consisting of some

6

10 entr’actes, songs and ballades has survived. The play’s melodramatic
plot concerns a young Cypriot princess, her malicious governor and
a mysterious stranger. The stranger rescues Rosamunde from several
dire predicaments and finally reveals that he the prince to whom
Rosamunde, as a child, had been promised in marriage. In the end,
good overpowers evil, and the prince and Rosamunde unite as spouses
and rulers of Cyprus. The main theme of the third entr’acte evidently
pleased Schubert, since he used it again in the 2nd movement of the
Rosamunde quartet as well as in his Impromptu in B-flat, D. 935 No. 3,
for piano.
Schubert completed the Rosamunde quartet in 1824, it was dedicated
to the violinist Ignaz Schuppanzigh and was first performed in
Vienna in March 1824. It was Schubert’s only string quartet to be
published in his lifetime. Schubert had contracted syphilis leading to
his premature death four years later at the age of 31, and was suffering
from depression during this period. This mood is reflected in many
of the quartet’s themes. The prominent theme of the first movement
is musically and emotionally reflective of the sad theme from one of
Schubert’s earliest songs, Gretchen am Spinnrade (Gretchen and the
Spinning Wheel). The second movement was based on the Rosamunde
Entr’acte. The minuet and trio was inspired by another melancholic
song by Schubert, Die Götter Griechenlands. The words are nostalgic and
longing; “Beautiful world, where are you…Ah, only in the magic land of song
lives still your richly fabled trace”. The finale is a profound contrast to
the other three movements with a more cheerful dance-like rondo in A
major.

7

Wolfgang Amadeus MOZART (1756 – 1791)
Violin Sonata No 18 in G major K301
Allegro con spirito
Allegro
The G major sonata is regarded as the first of Mozart’s mature violin
sonatas. He composed it at the age of 22 during a period spent in
Mannheim looking for a job. He then published the work in Paris in
1778 as the first in a set of ‘sonatas for harpsichord or fortepiano with
accompaniment of a violin’. But in correspondence with his father, Mozart
reveals that he intended there to be a ‘give and take’ between the two
instruments and he even used the term ‘duet’. That is certainly the case.
There are two movements – a sonata form first movement marked
‘Allegro con spirito’ followed by a rondo marked ‘Allegro’.

8

Bohuslav MARTINŮ (1890 – 1959)
Trio for Flute, Cello and Piano H 300
Poco allegretto
Adagio
Andante – Allegretto scherzando
Martinu has been justly hailed as one of the outstanding Czech
composers of the 20th Century. He was a prolific composer, who
worked in most of the musical genres; opera, ballet, the symphony,
the concerto, choral music, as well as chamber music for various
combinations of instruments. Though he drew inspiration from
the folk music of the Czech countryside, Bohemia and Moravia, he
was cosmopolitan and influenced by the music of Stravinsky and
contemporary French composers. His music is marked by simplicity,
directness and clarity, as well as a rhythmic drive both athletic and
vivacious.
The Trio was composed in America in 1944.
This three-movement work is notable for
a wonderful exploitation of tone colour.
The opening movement is sprightly, in the
French neo-classic manner, yet with hints
of Czech folk music. The second movement,
an adagio in C minor, is a serene, meditative
work in 6/4 time. The third movement
opens with a slow solo by the flute, which
then perks up and is joined by the other
two instruments for a series of episodes in
various tempi, textures and moods.

9

About The Performers
Andrew Kennedy is a professional
clarinetist and part-time specialist
anaesthetist. He graduated from the
Tasmanian Conservatorium of Music in
1999 with distinction and his current
mentor is Margery Smith. He is the
principal clarinetist of the NSW and
Australian Doctors’ Orchestras. His
favourite projects in 2013 are the series of
Brahms’ clarinet quintet with Ensemble
Astor, evniromentally-inspired chamber
music composed by Kris Spike in Sydney
and Brisbane, and a world premiere
overture by Elena Kats-Chernin with the
Doctors’ Orchestra. He will be a guest solo
performer at the Australasian Clarinet
Conference in July playing agressively rhythmic Muczynski and delightfully
slick and seductive d’Rivera. Andrew’s main objective in music is to create
a connection and beauty for the audience and Brahms is the complete
composer that achieves this end.
Kristofer Spike began learning the organ
with Eric Smith at the Wesley Chapel and
later studied piano with Albert Landa at
the Sydney Conservatorium where he also
gained his Bachelor of Music Education.
Kris has produced five CDs of his original
compositions and his music is often heard
on ABC Classic FM and other fine music
stations around the country. He won 2nd
prize in the 2008 University of Canberra’s
national chamber music composition
competition for his piece Homage to a Hero (Paul Robeson). Kris has
performed his music in several Australian capital cities as well as doing a
concert in New York with members of the Palisades Virtuosi. Many of his
compositions have been inspired by his concern for sustainability issues
and he now combines his performing and environmental advocacy in
concerts called Wind Energy.
10

Quartet Schuppanzigh

Nicole McVicar (cello), Greta Lee (violin), Stephen Harvey (violin), Daniel Morris
(viola)

Quartet Schuppanzigh was formed this year. We come from various
backgrounds: a computer programmer, a philosopher, a software engineer, a business owner or two, a university student, a cellist, a bushland manager and more… all rolled into four. Each of the members has
a broad experience of chamber music, both from ACMS activities and
playing music with friends gained through orchestral and other musical
avenues. We share a love of good chamber music and we enjoy playing
this anytime, especially late into the night. Through the process of trying
to understand the mind and music of Schubert we have learnt a lot musically. We hope you enjoy this string quartet as much as we do.

11

Inge Courtney-Haentjes (violin), John Hughes (piano)

Inge Courtney-Haentjes has been playing violin since a young age
and grew up in a house filled with music. After completing her music
studies in Germany she moved with her young family to Australia,
the birth country of her father. She enjoys living in Sydney and being
involved in various musical projects, from classical to blues to jazz,
recently also dabbling in her latest passion – tango music. Being
involved with the wonderful cellist Robyn Godfrey in performing the
Salon music of the famous Palm Court Era has been a decisive influence
in Inge’s style of playing. Recently she has been focusing on chamber
and smaller ensembles, and the elusive art of performing.
John Hughes is a pianist with a passion for music. Apart from raising
a family and maintaining a busy working life he has been a longstanding
member of ACMS. For over a decade he has been leading courses in
music appreciation for the University of the Third Age. John is wellversed in the piano chamber repertoire and is a regular participant in
ensemble playing.
Inge and John have collaborated on many occasions and hope to
continue doing so. They are thrilled to have the opportunity to perform
this short but beautiful Mozart violin sonata.

12

Riverbend Trio
Richard Tardif learned the basics of flute playing at primary school
and then abandoned the instrument for 30 years. He has since taken it
up again, encouraged by the possibilities of playing chamber music with
the ACMS. He also plays with the Latin Salsa band Musica Linda, which
performs regularly at various Sydney venues.
Kian Woo asked his mum if he could play the piano at a young age and
continued with lessons until completing his diploma. After studying IT
at the University of Technology, Sydney, Kian moved to London for six
years, working as a software developer. He discovered the wonderful
world of chamber music through the ACMS.
Robyn Godfrey I began my cello studies with another ACMS member
Marjorie Hystek, who although not a cellist herself (Marjorie plays viola
and piano) began at a cello class at my local high school. Marjorie very
successfully passed on to me a love for music which has propelled me
through life. After studies at the NSW Conservatorium of Music with
Lois Simpson I with my future husband John Godfrey began The Palm
Court Orchestra which played for many years at many of Sydney’s most
“happening” events. I have always enjoyed playing chamber music and it
was Marjorie again who suggested I join ACMS to attend a Wollongong
Summer Music Camp. To me there is no greater joy than playing with
others who share the love of music.

Kian Woo (piano), Robyn Godfrey (cello), Richard Tardif (flute)

The ACMS would like to thank –
The Elizabethan Theatre Trust for making this series of concerts
possible.
Sounds like Sydney at www.soundslikesydney.com.au for advertising
for us.
And you, for your patronage.

14

Join Us – Free Playing Day
The ACMS organises a playing day every other month where members
get together.
We also have:
• a membership register for contacting other players,
• a comprehensive library of chamber music,
• regular opportunities to play with other members and
• opportunities to perform works to a public audience.
For more information or to attend a free playing day, we can be contacted:
Website
Email		

www.acms-australia.org
membership.secretary@acms-australia.org

15

