The concert will conclude at
approximately 5pm

From The President
The ACMS is an association of people
who love playing chamber music.
We hope to be able to provide a range of music for your
enjoyment, some familiar, some which will surprise.
Music is a complicated business. It is not enough to love it in
private. It is intended to be shared with an audience.
The ACMS offers a range of benefits to its members. The
primary reason for membership is that members of the
society have access to a list of players from which they can
form groups to perform particular pieces or to play together
on a regular basis. To encourage interest in new music and
to get to know other performers the Society holds regular
get-togethers called Playing Days, usually five in a year,
where players are allocated groups and have access to the
Society’s extensive library for music. The key event of our
year is the 3-day music camp usually held in late January at
the Conservatorium of Wollongong. We also have regular
opportunities to perform at Sunset Concerts at the Kirribilli
Neighbourhood Centre, and now we can move on from
that test bed to enjoy the opportunity to perform at the
Independent Theatre. For some people getting together to
play music is what it is all about, for others a performance
provides a focus and the satisfaction of having an audience.

Susan Butler
President, ACMS
2

Program
Franz SCHUBERT (1797 – 1828)
Piano Trio No 2 in E flat major Op 100 D929
Allegro
Andante con moto
Scherzando. Allegro moderato
Allegro moderato
Cooks River Trio – George Carrard (violin), Robyn Godfrey (cello), Murray
Brown (piano)

INTERVAL
Robert SCHUMANN (1810 – 1856)
Fantasy Pieces Op 73
Lindsay Wanstall (clarinet), Kristofer Spike (piano)

Dimitri SHOSTAKOVICH (1906 – 1975)
Piano Quintet in G minor Op 57
Prelude: Lento
Fugue: Adagio
Scherzo: Allegretto
Intermezzo: Lento
Finale: Allegretto
Derek Davies (violin), Jenny Allison (violin), Barbara Robinson (viola),
Jane Smith (cello), Marjorie Hystek (piano)

3

About The Music
Franz SCHUBERT (1797 – 1828)
Piano Trio No 2 in E flat major Op 100 D929
Allegro
Andante con moto
Scherzando. Allegro moderato
Allegro moderato

Watercolour by W.A. Rieder, 1825

This piano trio, dated November 1827, was first performed at a private party
in January 1828 to celebrate the engagement (by some accounts, the wedding)
of one of Schubert’s school friends. At times it has a ländler dance flavour,
which is appropriate for a party and would have appealed to his friends.
It was among the few of Schubert’s late major compositions that he heard
performed, and was also one of the few works published before his untimely
death at the age of 31.
Like many of Schubert’s later compositions, the work is long, lasting 45
minutes. It has many more contrasts of energy and volume than its gentler
companion Trio in B flat. Despite the wide range of its melodies and keys it is
unified by setting every movement in the home key of E flat major (using the
relative minor key of C minor for the second movement). Stravinsky, when
once asked if he was put to sleep by the prolixities of Schubert, replied: “Why
should it matter if, when I awake, it seems to me that I am in Paradise?”
4

The first movement holds interest with its inventive patterns and changes
of key, particularly in the middle section. It opens in a manner conventional
at the time, emphatically establishing the home key of E flat major, but
it develops in a way that would have surprised Mozart and probably
Beethoven. The movement (and the whole work) demonstrates Schubert’s
melodic inventiveness and capacity to re-invent his themes through constant
changes of key.
The second movement is set at a walking pace (andante con moto) and is
one of Schubert’s most beautiful and most well-known compositions. It has
been used on the soundtrack of at least six films, notably Stanley Kubrick’s
Barry Lyndon. Out of the opening cello theme Schubert constructs a story
of passion contrasted with sections of “ethereal loveliness”, to use Berger’s
words1.
The dance-like third movement scherzo (allegro moderato) unfolds in
a canon between the piano and strings; even when the exact imitation
evaporates, the spirit of friendly emulation remains. The thump of a distant
country band can be heard in the trio section. Schubert marked its opening
with emphatic chords over a soft background. As usual the trio is followed
by a short version of the scherzo section.
The finale (allegro moderato) is expansive and complex. The bright opening
theme moves with only a short transition to the more dark-spirited second
tune. After this runs its course, Schubert abandons the conventional
recapitulation back to the first theme and instead introduces the melody
from the second movement on the cello, but with an entirely different
accompaniment on the piano and violin to suit the new tempo and context.
This structure was ground-breaking and has been copied, perhaps not so
effectively, by later composers.2 As usual Schubert cannot resist repeating
his melodies in different keys, re-introducing the second movement theme
again before the spirited ending.

1

Melvin Berger, Guide to Chamber Music.

Blair Johnston, http://www.allmusic.com/composition/piano-trio-no-2-in-e-flatmajor-d-929-op-100-mc0002368068
2

5

Robert SCHUMANN (1810 – 1856)
Fantasy Pieces (Fantasiestücke) Op 73
I. Zart und mit Ausdruck (Tender and with expression)
II. Lebhaft, leicht (Lively, light)
III. Rasch und mit Feuer (Quick and with fire)

Robert Schumann was a German composer, one of the greatest of the
Romantic Period (1825 –1900). He was a virtuoso pianist until a hand
injury forced him to concentrate on composition. Schumann’s early
compositions were exclusively for piano until 1840. After this time he
composed for piano and orchestra, many Leider, four symphonies, an
opera, and orchestral, choral and chamber works.
Fantasy Pieces Op 73 was written in 1849, as three short pieces,
originally entitled Night Pieces, “Soiréestücke” in German, for A
Clarinet and Piano.

6

Dimitri SHOSTAKOVICH (1906 – 1975)
Piano Quintet in G minor Op 57
Prelude: Lento
Fugue: Adagio
Scherzo: Allegretto
Intermezzo: Lento
Finale: Allegretto
This is the only quintet written by
Shostakovich. It has five movements
which is unusual in this genre. The overall
structure is often obscure as he asks for
the first (Prelude) and second (Fugue)
movements to be played without pause.
The fourth (Intermezzo) is directed to join
the fifth (Finale) without pause giving the
impression of a three movement work.
Shostakovich has used forms of the
Baroque and Classical periods e.g. the
first movement is a Prelude followed by a
Fugue. The Prelude is reminiscent of some
of Bach’s great works, while the second
movement (Fugue) has a long, slow, but majestic subject played by the
first violin followed by each instrument in turn with piano introducing
the subject at great depth. The third movement is a crazy Scherzo
in triple time. It is wild in every aspect and has great strength in its
harmony.
The 4th and 5th movements are an Intermezzo followed by a Finale
ending with a meditative, reflective and somewhat sad note of farewell
by the piano.
Shostakovich uses canon, fugue, discord, modulation. His harmonies
are quite disconcerting e.g. while the viola plays A, the 1st violin plays a
minor 9th above as B flat. Another example is the piano playing C with
the first violin high above as D flat. All this is unsettling but gives the
work its great strength and beauty.

7

About The Performers
Cooks River Trio
We are long-standing members of ACMS and have been performing together
for ten years at Kirribilli Sunset Concerts and at Waterbrook, Yowie Bay. We
have performed trios by Schubert, Mendelssohn and Frank Bridge, as well as
violin and piano sonatas by Beethoven, Mozart, Lilburn, Fauré and Debussy,
cello and piano sonatas by Brahms and Rachmaninov and piano quartets by
Frank Bridge and Fauré.
We live and rehearse in the southern suburbs and took our name from a
nearby natural landscape feature; water and music are both about flowing,
journeying and being aware of undercurrents beneath the surface!

Robyn Godfrey, Murray Brown, George Carrard

Robyn Godfrey – Cello. Robyn began her cello studies with another ACMS
member, Marjorie Hystek, who successfully passed on a love for music which
has propelled her through life. After studies at the NSW Conservatorium
of Music with Lois Simpson she established The Palm Court Orchestra with
her future husband John Godfrey. The PCO played for many years at many
of Sydney’s most “happening” events. She was introduced to chamber music
through the ACMS Wollongong Summer Music Camp. Robyn is a very active
teacher of cello and music.
8

Murray Brown – Piano. Murray has performed with many singers and
instrumentalists for the Lieder Society of Victoria, the National Lieder
Society and ACMS. He has had a diverse career in arts organisations,
including the ABC, the Australian Film Commission, Arts Training Australia
and the Heritage Council of NSW. He is currently a policy advisor with the
Australian Institute of Architects.
George Carrard – Violin. George chose a working life in science and
engineering with music as a counterpoint. He grew up in Perth, arrived in
Sydney in 1968, led the Sutherland Shire Symphony Orchestra for 16 years,
played in the Sydney Concert Trio in music clubs throughout NSW, and
has performed regularly in ACMS concerts at the Kirribilli Neighbourhood
Centre. Outside music, his main interest today is in doing anything to
mitigate the catastrophic consequences of global warming.
Lindsay Wanstall – Clarinet. Linsday studied
clarinet and piano at the Sydney Conservatorium of
Music, graduating with Bachelor of Music Education.
She taught music in schools, soon realising her
passion was for instrumental music teaching. She
still teaches private students and trains a youth band.
She returned to her own playing after raising her
family and plays regular chamber music thanks to the
connections made through the ACMS.
Kristofer Spike – Piano. Kristofer began learning
the organ with Eric Smith at the Wesley Chapel and later studied piano with
Albert Landa at the Sydney Conservatorium where he also gained his Bachelor
of Music Education. Kris has produced five CDs of his original compositions
and his music is often heard on ABC Classic FM and other fine music stations
around the country. He won 2nd prize in the 2008 University of Canberra’s
national chamber music composition competition
for his piece Homage to a Hero (Paul Robeson). Kris
has performed his music in several Australian
capital cities as well as doing a concert in New York
with members of the Palisades Virtuosi. Many of
his compositions have been inspired by his concern
for sustainability issues and he now combines his
performing and environmental advocacy in concerts
called Wind Energy.
9

Jane Smith, Barbara Robinson, Derek Davies, Marjorie Hystek, Jenny Allison

Marjorie Hystek – Piano. Marjorie also plays violin and viola. She has degrees
in all three instruments, but often feels drawn to the viola. Marjorie studied
with Jascha Gopinko, Robert Pikler and in Japan with Shinichi Suzuki. She
currently works with very young children on violin. “It is inspiring, rewarding and
challenging.”
Derek Davies – Violin. Derek is a freelance violinist and violist and leader of the
Penguin Music Group which has recorded three CDs. He plays Jazz, Latin, Celtic
and Classical. Derek has composed and recorded a CD of original works titled
Caravans. He has performed from the Sydney Opera House to Uluru and Europe.
He played violin and viola in ABC Sinfonia. “I enjoy chamber music very much – the
Shostakovich Piano Quintet is a mighty work and absolutely worth the journey.”
Jenny Allison – Violin. Jenny has been playing since childhood with big breaks
for domestic responsibilities. “I love playing chamber music for itself and the
conviviality of playing with others.”
Barbara Robinson – Viola. Barbara taught the violin and viola for many years
at Ravenswood School and continues to have great interest in music education
and chamber music for children and retirees.
Jane Smith – Cello. Jane started to play chamber music when she was living
in Scotland, and has also found many keen players in Sydney. “I enjoy playing
the wide variety of music that is available to me as a string player. Learning and
rehearsing the Shostakovich Piano Quintet has been a highlight!”
10

The ACMS would like to thank –
The Elizabethan Theatre Trust for making this series of concerts
possible.
And you, for your patronage.

Coming up in 2013

ACMS: Chamber Music For Pleasure
The Independent Theatre, North Sydney

Saturday October 19, 3pm
Franz SCHUBERT – Five Lieder
Claude DEBUSSY – Songs
Tickets
Adults $30
Concession $26
Student $22
Family (two adults and two chilren) $80
Children under 7 (with an adult) Free

11

Join Us – Free Playing Day
The ACMS organises a playing day every other month where members
get together.
We also have:
• a membership register for contacting other players,
• a comprehensive library of chamber music,
• regular opportunities to play with other members and
• opportunities to perform works to a public audience.
For more information or to attend a free playing day, we can be contacted:
Website
Email		

www.acms-australia.org
membership.secretary@acms-australia.org

