SHOSTAKOVICH (1906-1975) Four waltzes for flute, clarinet and piano (1955)
Dmitri Dmitrievich Shostakovich endured a period of considerable tension living under Stalin until Stalin’s death in 1953, which brought something of a release and a renewal of creativity for the composer.  Life was somewhat better with Khrushchev at the helm but even so Shostakovich seems to have often been uncomfortable with his role as an official party composer, feeling that he was pressured to be the figurehead for Russian music and not at all happy with some of the pronouncements that came out under his name.
The background to his work through the decade of the 1950s was thus rather dark, and so it is all the more surprising that in 1955 he could produce these waltzes – delicate, light and humorous in nature and yet with an elusive oddity that keeps the performers on their toes.  They seem so simple and yet they twist and turn harmonically, their mood ranging from cheerful to whimsical to ironic.













The manager and volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre provide light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors) to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre

To get information on future concerts, go to the website http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”) and click on “Concerts”
All chamber music players are welcome to join the Amateur Chamber Music Society.  If interested, go to the website and click on “Join Us”, or email membership@acms-sydney.org, or write to ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093






























Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/
— CONCERT — 
5.00pm Sunday 6 April 2014 (first Sunday in April) Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli www.KNCsydney.org          tel: 9922 4428
— PROGRAM —
DUPARC Four Songs
(1) L’Invitation au Voyage    (2) Lamento (3) Elegie    (4) La Vie anterieure    
mezzosoprano Jo Burton        piano Murray Brown
15’
BRUCH Kol Nidrei
viola Michelle Urquhart    piano Linda Kurti
10’
MOSZKOWSKI Spanish Dances Op12 
(1) Allegro brioso    (2) Moderato    (3) Con moto    (4) Allegro comodo
pianists Susan Butler and Felicia Mitchell
15’
— INTERVAL —
J S BACH Two Arias
(1) Von der welt verlang’ ich nichts    (2) Zum reinen Wasser
contralto Helen Bailey-Cooke   viola Peter Mitchell piano Felicia Mitchell
SHOSTAKOVICH Four Waltzes (1955)
(1) Spring Waltz     (2) Waltz-Joke    (3) Waltz    (4) Barrel-organ Waltz
flute Richard Tardif     clarinet Lindsay Wanstall     piano Susan Butler
15'
— REFRESHMENTS —
concert organiser Tony Tenney
- Notes -
DUPARC (1848 – 1933) Four songs
Duparc is recognised as one of the masters of French song-writing despite his published output amounting to little more than 16 songs, far less than that of his peers Debussy and Fauré.
He studied piano with César Franck and became one of his first composition pupils. A mental illness, diagnosed at the time as "neurasthenia", caused him to cease composing at age 37, in 1885. He devoted himself to his family and his other passions, drawing and painting, and died at the age of 85.
Like many other composers of his generation he fell under the spell of Wagner. The chromaticism of Duparc's musical settings, combined with the exotic imagery of his favourite poets, produced masterly songs thoroughly in tune with late 19th century taste.  (Photo shows Duparc as a young man).
MOSZKOWSKI (1854 – 1925) Spanish Dances Op12
Moritz Moszkowski was born in Breslau, Prussia, now the Polish city of Wroclaw.  He was a composer and pianist , who was an ardent  Jew in the times that Jews often downplayed their Jewishness.
He showed early talent and studied at several German conservatoriums.  After living in London for 11 years he finally settled in Paris in 1886.  He wrote for opera and ballet, and composed a violin concerto and a piano concerto, and many songs.  However, he was chiefly known for his lighter pianoforte pieces, of which he wrote over 200. These brought him much popularity, especially his Five Spanish Dances Op12.  Today we will hear the first four of the five dances.  
J S BACH (1685 - 1750) Two Arias with Viola Obbligato
As part of his prodigious output, Johann Sebastian Bach wrote many Cantatas, of which over 200 have survived.  While he was cantor of the main churches of Leipzig, one of his duties was to perform a church cantata every Sunday and religious holiday which related to the readings prescribed by the Lutheran liturgy for that occasion.  During his first years in Leipzig starting in 1723, he composed a new work every week.
The arias that we are performing today are taken from cantatas written during Bach’s tenure at St Thomas’s church: (1) Von der welt verlang’ ich nichts (From the World I Demand Nothing) BWV64 from cantata No64 for the 3rd day after Christmas 27 Dec 1723 and (2) Zum reinen Wasser (For Pure Water) BWV112 from Cantata No112 for Sunday Misericordias Domini – (2nd Sunday after Easter) 8 Apr 1731.
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
www.KNCsydney.org
Amateur Chamber Music Society 
http://www.acms-australia.org/
Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 6 April 2014
5pm



