Chamber Music for Pleasure @

Sat 15th March 2014 3pm
The concert will conclude at approximately 5pm

From the President

The ACMS is an association of people who love playing chamber
music.
We hope to be able to provide a range of music for your enjoyment,
some familiar, some which will surprise.
Music is a complicated business. It is not enough to love it in private.
It is intended to be shared with an audience.
The ACMS offers a range of benefits to its members. The primary
reason for membership is that members of the society have access
to a list of players from which they can form groups to perform
particular pieces, or to play together on a regular basis. To
encourage interest in new music and to get to know other
performers the Society holds regular get-togethers called Playing
Days, usually five in a year, where players are allocated to groups
and have access to the Society's extensive library of music. The key
event of our year is a three day music camp held in late January at
the Wollongong Conservatorium.
There are also regular opportunities to perform at Sunset Concerts at
the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre, and now we can move on from
that test bed to enjoy the opportunity to perform at the
Independent Theatre. For some people getting together to play
music is what it is all about, for others a performance provides a
focus and the satisfaction of having an audience.

Susan Butler
President, ACMS

Program
John Carmichael (1930 - )
Thredbo Suite
Richard Tardif (flute) | Lindsay Wanstall (clarinet) | Susan Butler (piano)
Elena Kats-Chernin (1957 - )
(i) Dance of the Paper Umbrellas
(ii) The Breakfast Suite
Anita Beuthien (violin) | Di Wong (violin) | Elizaeth Goss (cello) |
Kian Woo (piano)
Isaac Albéniz (1860-1909)
Tango from España
Georges Bizet (1838 – 1875)
Aragonaise from Carmen Suite
Scott Joplin (ca 1867 – 1917)
Peacherine Rag
Andrew Kennedy (clarinet) | Brian Martin (clarinet)
Lindsay Wanstall (clarinet) | Peter Scaysbrook (bass clarinet)

INTERVAL
Claude Debussy (1862 – 1918)
Songs
(i) Beau Soir (Bourget)
(ii) Fleur des Blés (Girod)
(iii) Mandoline (Verlaine)
Susan Butler (soprano)| Richard Tardif (flute) | Michelle Urquhart (viola) |
Jane Smith (cello)
Robert Schumann (1810 – 1856)
Grand Sonata No 2 in D Minor Op 121
Tracey Tsang (violin) | Benjamin Chan (piano)

Future Concert Dates
ACMS Chamber Music for Pleasure @

Saturday June 14 - 3pm
Saturday August 16 - 3pm
Saturday October 18 - 3pm

Tickets
Adults $30
Concession $26
Student $22
Family $80
(2 adults and 2 children)
Children under 7 FREE

About The Music
The ACMS would like to thank Wenona School and
The Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust for
supporting us in presenting this concert.
And you, for your patronage!
We look forward to seeing you again at our future
concerts this year.

John Carmichael (1930 - )
Thredbo Suite
(i)
Air from the High Mountain
(ii)
Nocturne
(iii) Sleigh Ride to Thredbo
The Thredbo Suite by Australian composer John Carmichael was originally
composed for flute and piano in 1980, but reworked for flute, clarinet
and piano in 2006. Born in Melbourne, Carmichael studied composition
at the Melbourne Conservatorium with Dorian Le Gallienne. He then
studied at the Paris Conservatoire and privately with Arthur Benjamin.
He has a focus on writing for wind instruments, although his own
instrument is the piano. In 2011 John Carmichael's Piano Concerto No. 2
was premiered in Melbourne by Australian pianist Antony Gray with the
Chamber Strings of Melbourne conducted by Stefan Cassomenos.
Fêtes Champêtres Suite for clarinet and piano, Phoenix (a flute concerto
premiered and recorded by James Galway), and the Concierto Folklorico
for piano and string orchestra are popular works. His work has been
described as expressive and lyrical. Carmichael was also a pioneer in the
field of music therapy. He has long been resident in the United Kingdom.
The Thredbo Suite consists of three movements. The first, Air from the
High Mountain, features a simple melody which is shared between all
three instruments. The second movement, Nocturne, is slower and
dreamier. The final movement, Sleigh ride to Thredbo, is a lively march.
This suite has also been performed and recorded by James Galway.

Artwork by Judith White, an ACMS member

Albéniz (1860 – 1909)
Tango from España (arr Sjoerd van der Veen)
Isaac Albéniz was a Spanish pianist and composer. He was refused
entrance to the Paris Conservatoire at the age of seven because he
was too young. After touring the Americas and parts of Europe
playing piano he returned to Barcelona. He was introduced to
Spanish folk music, much of which influenced his compositions. He
was also an early master of Impressionism. His two Suites
Españolas, written between 1886-9, are among his most important
works.

Bizet (1838 – 1875)
Aragonaise from Carmen Suite (arr Marco Mazzini)
Georges Bizet, a French composer came from a musical family. He
displayed early gifts and was admitted to the Paris Conservatoire at
nine years of age. He won many prizes for composition, but it was
the opera Carmen that has been most widely acclaimed. Despite
originally causing much controversy in the press, Carmen has
always been much loved by audiences the world over.

Scott Joplin (ca 1867 – 1917)
Peacherine Rag (arr David Schorr)
Scott Joplin, was an American composer and pianist. He became a
travelling musician in the 1880s. During the 1890s he settled in
Missouri to write piano music, in particular ragtime pieces. Joplin
worked hard to have ragtime music accepted as an art form, not
just as popular entertainment.

Join Us!
Free Playing Day
The ACMS organises a Playing Day every second month where
members get together to play chamber music.
We also have:
• a membership register for contacting other players;
• a comprehensive library of chamber music for loan;
• regular opportunities to play with other members; and
• opportunities to perform works to a public audience.

For more information or to attend a free Playing Day, visit
our website or send us an email.
Website:
Email:

www.acms-australia.org
membership.secretary@acms-australia.org

Tracey Tsang (violin) & Benjamin Chan (piano)
Tracey and Benjamin have known each other for about fifteen years,
first being in the same orchestra and sharing the same violin teacher
(as Benjamin also plays violin), before reuniting a few years later
through chamber music. Benjamin and Tracey now enjoy exploring
the chamber music repertoire together, and have performed at a
number of successful fundraising and philanthropic events and other
gigs.
Although both Benjamin and Tracey have achieved their LMusA
Diplomas, they both play music for the love of it, and have
completely different professions during the day – Benjamin has a
background in business and economics, and is working for
CommonBank; while Tracey is a post-doctoral researcher for The
Discipline of Paediatrics & Child Health at the University of Sydney.

Claude Debussy (1862 – 1918)
Songs (arr Jane Andino)
(i) Beau Soir (Beautiful Evening)
(ii) Fleur des Blés (Flower of Wheat)
(iii) Mandoline (Mandolin)
Debussy wrote these three songs in the early period of his
musical life. They are small masterpieces, fleeting but finely
wrought. They did not, however, fit into the chamber music
genre. It was Jane Andino, who suggested that they could be
adapted for a chamber music group. Jane is a composer, arranger
and pianist, writing and performing in classical, jazz and LatinAmerican styles and published by Wirripang Press. These
arrangements of Debussy are faithful to the composer’s original
intention, whilst allowing a small chamber music group to share
the pleasure of performing them.
Beau Soir (Beautiful Evening)
(Paul Bourget)
Lorsque au soleil couchant les
rivières sont roses
Et qu'un tiède frisson court sur
les champs de blé,
Un conseil d'être heureux
semble sortir des choses
Et monter vers le coeur troublé.
Un conseil de goûter le charme
d'être au monde
Cependant qu'on est jeune que
le soir est beau,
Car nous nous en allons, comme
s'en va cette onde:
Elle à la mer, nous au tombeau.

When streams turn pink in the
setting sun,
And a slight shudder rushes
through the wheat fields,
A plea for happiness seems to rise
out of all things
And it climbs up towards the
troubled heart.
A plea to relish the charm of life
While there is youth and the
evening is fair,
For we pass away, as the wave
passes:
The wave to the sea, we to the
grave.

Anita Beuthien (violin) & Di Wong (violin) &
Elizabeth Goss (cello) & Kian Woo (piano)

Mandoline (Paul Verlaine)
Les donneurs de sérénades
Et les belles écouteuses
Echangent des propos fades
Sous les ramures chanteuses.

Anita Beuthien began her musical studies on the accordion, and soon
after also commenced piano studies, later discovering the violin. She
completed her studies at the University of Sydney with a Bachelor of
Music in Performance. Anita has played violin and piano professionally
for over twenty years and has recorded on all of her instruments, having
recently added viola to her accomplishments. Anita gives regular
concerts with the Orpheus String Quartet and other chamber groups,
including classical concerts internationally and on cruise ships. Anita
also tutors for the ACMS.

C’est Tircis et c’est Aminte,
Et c’est l’éternel Clitandre,
Et c’est Damis qui pour mainte
Cruelle fait maint vers tendre.
Leurs courtes vestes de soie,
Leurs longues robes à queues,
Leur élégance, leur joie
Et leurs molles ombres bleues,
Tourbillonent dans l’extase
D’une lune rose et grise,
Et la mandoline jase
Parmi les frissons de brise.

Di Wong started learning the violin after gaining specialist qualifications
in Medicine. She finds music a wonderful balance to her busy
professional life. Some years ago Di joined the ACMS where she has
discovered a real love for chamber music.

The givers of serenades
And the beautiful, listening women
Exchange insipid words
Beneath the singing branches.
There is Thyrsis and Amyntas,
And there's the eternal Clytander,
And there's Damis who, for many
Cruel women, wrote many tender verses.
Their short, silk vests,
Their long robes with trains,
Their elegance, their joy,
And their soft, blue shadows,
Whirling in the ecstasy
Of a pink and grey moon,
And the mandolin prattles
Among the shivers of the breeze.

Elizabeth Goss has spent the past 33 years teaching piano and cello
after graduating from the Sydney Conservatorium of Music. She has a
passion for playing the cello and has enjoyed playing with the ACMS for
over twenty years.
Kian Woo asked his mum if he could play the piano at a young age and
continued with lessons until completing his diploma. After studying
Information Technology at the University of Technology, Sydney, Kian
moved to London for six years, where he worked as a software
developer. Since returning to Australia he has discovered the wonderful
world of chamber music through the ACMS.

Susan Butler (soprano) & Richard Tardif (flute) &
Michelle Urquhart (viola) & Jane Smith (cello)

Fleur des Blés (Flower of Wheat)
André Girod

Susan Butler took up chamber music on joining the ACMS and revived
her interest in singing, taking lessons from Sydney-based performer
and teacher, the soprano Nicole Thomson. The impetus for taking on
these Debussy songs came from her teacher, but it seemed
appropriate to adapt them into a form of chamber music.

Le long des blés que la brise
Fait onduler puis défrise
En un désordre coquet,
J'ai trouvé de bonne prise
De t'y cueillir un bouquet.

Richard Tardif learnt the basics of flute playing at primary school and
then abandoned the instrument for thirty years, but has taken it up
again, encouraged by the possibilities of playing chamber music with
the ACMS. He also plays with the Latin salsa band Musica Linda, which
performs regularly at various Sydney venues.

Mets-le vite à ton corsage, Il est fait à ton image
En même temps que pour toi...
Ton petit doigt, je le gage,
T'a déjà soufflé pourquoi:

Michelle Urquhart is a freelance violinist and violist in Sydney.
Chamber music has been a passion since the age of twelve when she
was fortunate enough to have weekly string quartet lessons at school.
Michelle studied with Alex Todicescu at the Sydney Conservatorium of
Music going on to further her studies with Jeremy Williams. She
gained her AMusA Diploma with Distinction and went on to the
Tasmanian Conservatorium of Music where she was appointed
principal viola in the Tasmanian Discovery Orchestra. Michelle has
played as soloist with a number of Australian orchestras, and is jointfounding director of the Strings Alive Academy.

Ces épis dorés, c'est l'onde
De ta chevelure blonde
Toute d'or et de soleil;
Ce coquelicot qui fronde,
C'est ta bouche au sang vermeil.

Jane Smith started to play chamber-music in Scotland where she used
to live. Here in Sydney she has come across many keen musicians and
enjoys playing the wide variety of repertoire that is available to her as a
string-player.

Et ces bluets, beau mystère!
Points d'azur que rien n'altère,
Ces bluets ce sont tes yeux,
Si bleus qu'on dirait, sur terre,
Deux éclats tombés des cie

Along the wheatfield that the breeze
Waves and then uncurls
In stylish disarray
I thought it right
To gather a bouquet for you
Fasten it quickly to your bodice.
It was made in your likeness
As it was made for you…
A little bird, I wager,
Has already whispered to you why:
These golden ears are the waves
Of your blonde hair
All gold and sunlit;
This rebellious poppy
Is your blood-red mouth.

And these cornflowers, lovely mystery!
Azure specks that nothing can change,
These flowers are your eyes,
So blue that they seem to be, on earth,
Two fallen fragments of the sky.

English translation is inspired by a copyrighted text by Emily Ezust.

Elena Kats-Chernin (1957 - )
The Breakfast Suite (2011)
Dance of the Paper Umbrellas (2013)
Elena Kats-Chernin is one of the most cosmopolitan composers
working today, having reached millions of listeners worldwide
through her prolific catalogue of works for theatre, ballet, orchestra,
and chamber ensemble. Her dramatically vivid music communicates
a mixture of lightheartedness and heavy melancholy, combining
strong rhythmic figures with elements of cabaret, tango, ragtime,
and klezmer.
Born in Tashkent (Uzbekistan), Kats-Chernin received training at the
Gnesin Musical College before migrating to Australia in 1975. She
graduated from the New South Wales Conservatorium of Music in
1981, and was awarded a DAAD (German academic exchange) grant
to study with Helmut Lachenmann in Hanover. She remained in
Germany for 13 years, returning to Sydney, Australia in 1994.

Andrew Kennedy & Brian Martin & Lindsay Wanstall &
Peter Scaysbrook
Andrew Kennedy is a specialist anaesthetist, composer, and
professional clarinetist and singer, hailing from Queensland and now
playing with ACMS for the last five years. He loves Stravinsky,
Shostakovich, Britten, Brahms and Ravel, and plays at a large variety
of events around Australia and internationally. These have included
a solo recital at the Australasian Clarinet Conference in 2013,
principal clarinet duties with the Australian and World Doctors’
Orchestras, and performing the Mozart Clarinet Concerto in May
2014 with the New South Wales Doctors’ Orchestra. Rather than
viewing music as an ‘escape’, Andrew will tell you that music is
actually where he ‘lives’ most of the time, and that medicine is a
little break from practice and performing. Andrew’s idea of artistic
expression is beauty-centred, meaningful storytelling, whether with
words or without, and always light, fun, and sentimental.
Brian Martin has been playing in bands, orchestras and chamber
groups since the 1950s. Otherwise he is a Professor of Social
Sciences at the University of Wollongong and Vice-President of
Whistleblowers Australia.
Lindsay Wanstall studied clarinet and piano at the Sydney
Conservatorium of Music, graduating with a Bachelor of Music
Education. She taught music in schools, before realising her passion
was for instrumental music teaching. She still teaches private
students and trains a youth band. She returned to her own playing
after raising her family and plays regular chamber music thanks to
connections made through the ACMS.

Elena Kats-Chernin

Peter Scaysbrook is a Registered Nurse Educator. He also studied at
the Sydney Conservatorium of Music attaining a Bachelor of Music
Education. He currently plays with Beecroft Orchestra and Northern
Beaches Symphonic Wind Ensemble. Peter is a freelance wind player
in the Sydney area.

About Us
The Kurrajong Trio
Susan Butler (piano) & Richard Tardif (flute) &
Lindsay Wanstall (clarinet)
Susan Butler obtained her AMusA Diploma at the age of fifteen and
has, through the connection with the ACMS of which she is now the
President, become a devoted chamber music player over the last
decade.
Richard Tardif learnt the basics of flute playing at primary school and
then abandoned the instrument for thirty years, but has taken it up
again, encouraged by the possibilities of playing chamber music with
the ACMS. He also plays with the Latin salsa band Musica Linda,
which performs regularly at various Sydney venues.
Lindsay Wanstall studied clarinet and piano at the Sydney
Conservatorium of Music, graduating with a Bachelor of Music
Education. She taught music in schools, before realising her passion
was for instrumental music teaching. She still teaches private
students and trains a youth band. Lindsay returned to her own
playing after raising her family and plays chamber music regularly
thanks to the connections made through the ACMS.

The Breakfast Suite (2011)
i.
Sweet Breakfast
ii. Romantic Breakfast
iii. Celtic Breakfast

The Breakfast Suite is the first instalment of a larger suite of music
called The Food of Love which we hope to present at future
Independent concerts. It was commissioned by Di Wong for her
ensemble, the 4 + 1 Quartet. The 4+1 Quartet is a group of
musicians who live locally and meet regularly to play chamber music.
Food is a significant feature of our getting together, playing and
eating; the repertoire influencing the food we eat after playing or
vice versa. Food affectionately became like another member of the
quartet (the +1)! When our violist left the ensemble, the repertoire
available for two violins, cello and piano was found to be very
limited, and the idea of commissioning music to play for our own
entertainment was born. The 4 + 1 Quartet is grateful to Elena KatsChernin for writing this suite of music for us.
The Breakfast Suite consists of three smaller pieces: Sweet Breakfast,
Romantic Breakfast and Celtic Breakfast. Sweet Breakfast is light,
perhaps the sort of breakfast one might indulge in on a weekend croissants and coffee. Romantic breakfast is a dreamy waltz with a
wistful tone, perhaps as one recounts the events of the night before,
and the final piece in this suite is the more robust Celtic Breakfast of
a rustic and earthy nature.

Dance of the Paper Umbrellas (2013)

The Dance of the Paper Umbrellas was commissioned by the Hush
Music Foundation, and was first performed in Hobart in December
2013 with the launch of HUSH Collection Volume 13. The Hush
Music Foundation was created by Dr Catherine Crock, a physician
working with children with cancer at the Royal Children’s Hospital in
Melbourne. Dr Crock teamed up Australia’s foremost professional
musicians who have volunteered their time to create a collection of
unique CDs designed to help children and their parents during
medical procedures. The result is the HUSH collection, a special
compilation of soothing music designed to calm and relax people of
all ages.
About this piece Elena Kats-Chernin says, “I have this image of a cake
that has lots of little umbrellas, of all different colours, and very
bright and happy looking, something to look forward to when you
have a birthday, or when you celebrate recovery from illness. When
you are sick, I feel that maybe it is something you would like,
something sweet. I thought, what would be if suddenly those paper
umbrellas started to move and start dancing in the air, it floats, it is
very much in the air, it is very light.”
Dance of the Paper Umbrellas was originally written for, and
performed by, the Tasmanian Symphony Orchestra.
This
arrangement is for two violins, cello and piano.
For more information about the Hush Music Foundation visit
www.hush.org.au

Robert Schumann (1810 – 1856)
Grand Sonata No 2 in D Minor Opus 121 (1851)
(i)
Ziemlich Langsam – Lebhaft
(ii)
Sehr Lebhaft
(iii) Leise, Einfach
(iv) Bewegt
The Grand Sonata is perhaps one of the lesser known works of the
violin/piano sonata repertoire and was actually composed in response to
Schumann’s recently completed Violin Sonata No. 1 in A Minor. It is
reported that Schumann said, “I didn't like the first violin sonata, so I wrote
a second, which I hope turned out better“. The piano part is complex and
intricate against the violin part, which is characterized by equally emotive
passionate melodies and intensity.
The First Movement ("Slowly, with energy") is blustery and begins with an
introduction in a triple beat, with detached chords. The tempo then shifts
to "Lively" yet the thematic material continues to be of of unrelenting
intensity, with all of the rich pianistic writing which makes this piece a true
duo and not merely a violin work with piano accompaniment. The Second
Movement scherzo ("Very animated") is in 6/8, with the piano taking the
lead, except in the contrasting trio, in which the violin takes the lead. The
Third Movement ("Simply") includes pizzicato triple-stops and quite narrow
melodic material. The movement is a set of variations with intervening
episodes. The Fourth Movement ("Moving along") is quite fast, with the two
instruments competing for the thematic material. The development
explores fairly distant harmonic areas, as well as contrasting textural
approaches, but the work ends forcefully.
After Schumann’s death the work was tarred with the brush of prejudice,
seen as the product of an increasingly diseased mind and too extreme to be
anything other than a failure in performance, yet in spite of previous
preconceptions, listening to this work today, one can hear the striking sense
of original thinking in this piece.
Sources:
http://www.musicweb-international.com
http://www.allmusic.com

