Amateur Chamber Music Society
www.acms-australia.org
at the
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli

Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 7 December 2014
5 pm

Amateur Chamber Music Society
acms-australia.org

— CONCERT —
5pm Sunday 7 December 2014
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.KNCsydney.org

tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
SIBELIUS Sonatine Op 80
Violin George Carrard Piano Kris Spike

FAURE Sonata No 1 in A Op 13
Violin Tracy Tsang Piano Ben Chan

— INTERVAL —

Christmas Music
BRITTEN Wolcum Yole*
PRAETORIUS Psallite
KIRKPATRICK/WILLCOCKS Away in a Manger
VICTORIA O Magnum Mysterium
BUXTEHUDE In Dulci Jubilo†
Sopranos Karen Butler, Susan Butler, Rita Rabie, Glenda Woolnough
Altos Hilary Day, Pat Fernandez, Margaret McMurtry, Heather Powrie,
Eveline Schultheiss
Tenors Ian Butler, Vivien Shih
Basses Mikey Floyd, Hugh Wilson, Joe Wolfe
*Piano Margaret McMurtry
†Violin Ian Butler Viola Mikey Floyd Cello Hilary Day

— REFRESHMENTS —

Sibelius (1865–1957) Sonatine Op 80
Sibelius started playing with a piano and a violin from an
early age - just developing techniques by himself, preferring
to improvise rather than read music. He had no formal violin
tuition until the age of 16, but then there was no stopping
him: he said later, “The violin took possession of me. During
the ten years that followed it was my dearest wish, the loftiest
goal of my ambition, to become a great violin virtuoso.”
Together with his brother and sister they formed a piano trio
which performed in summer resorts, leading to composing
with a view to creating a repertoire.
Sibelius wrote several works for violin between the age of 19
and 23 but did not publish them. It was not until he was in
his mid 30s that he published works, of which some were
revisions of earlier unpublished works. He published his
famous violin concerto when he was 40 and his Sonatina in E
major for Violin and Piano Op80 when he was 50 in 1915.
The Sonatine is a carefully considered work in a quasiclassical style, based on happy childhood memories: "Been
dreaming about being twelve years old and a virtuoso. The
sky of my childhood and stars. Lots of stars." (Diary, 14th
January 1915.)
The first movement starts with a brief introduction, then the
violin - accompanied on the piano by ringing figures that
sparkle like stars – begins an innocent, vivid E major theme.
In the middle part of the second movement, where the
expression is more serious, the melodic sighs lead to a sense
of stasis.
The slow introduction to the third and final movement
prepares the way for the main theme, which is joyful and has
elements of a dance. It contains some surprising dramatic
passages, but these are softened by the joyfully jingling bellsin-the-snow accompaniment on the piano.
http://www.sibelius.fi/english/musiikki/kamari_viulu_piano.htm,
http://www.sibelius.fi/english/musiikki/kron_1880-1889.htm

Faure (1845 – 1924) Sonata for Violin and Piano Op 13
One of Fauré's first masterpieces was his Sonata for Violin
and Piano, Op. 13 no.1 in A Major, which he composed in
1875 having come to appreciate the expressive qualities of the
violin in response to hearing the great Pablo Sarasate for
whom Saint-Säens had written his first concerto, as well as
his association with Vieuxtemps' student, Belgian violinist
Hubert Léonard who presided over the technical aspects of
the creation of the sonata. The dedication of the piece went to
Paul Viardot, son of the singer Pauline Viardot and brother of
the young lady that the composer was hoping to marry at the
time. The sonata was premiered at the Société Nationale to
great acclaim by violinist Marie Tayau with the composer at
the piano. In ensuing years Fauré gave countless
performances of it with the great violinists of his day
including Ysaÿe, Thibaud, and Enesco.
The composer's skill as a song writer is immediately evident
as the piano commences passionately with the violin following
in a variation of a pleasing melody, pure and full of energetic
beauty and sweeping melodic expansion. From the outset it is
clear that this duo is expected to perform in intense concerto
style. For the andante in D minor, a 9/8 barcarolle, the
performers are now required to combine in purpose in
sharing two idyllic themes. The scherzo movement with its
originality of brittle piano writing, pizzicato, wit, and flights of
fancy again interspersed with soaring melodies, not
surprisingly caused a stir and demand for encore at its first
performance. The finale, returning to a sonata-allegro form,
opens expressively, continuing alternating sweetness and
passion that seems reminiscent of Schumann, a favourite of
the composer. A sudden burst of virtuosity for the violin in
the coda brings the work to a fiery conclusion.

Christmas Music
Benjamin Britten (1913 – 1976) wrote A Ceremony of Carols
during his voyage from the United States to Britain in 1942.
The text is from a collection of Middle English poems.
Michael Praetorius (1571 – 1621) was born Michael
Schultze, the son of a Lutheran pastor, in Creuzberg. He
worked at a number of courts in Germany, including
Wolfenbüttel and later Dresden.
Psallite, unigenito
Christo Dei Filio, Christo Dei
Filio,
Redemptori Domino, puerulo,
iacenti in praesepio.

Sing your psalms to Christ,
the only begotten Son of God,
sing your psalms to the
Redeemer.

Ein kleines Kindelein liegt in dem
Krippelein;
Alle liebe Engelein dienen dem
Kindelein, und singen ihm fein,

A small Child lies in the manger.
All the blessed angels serve Him
and sing to Him.

Away in a Manger is one of the most popular carols in the
English-speaking world. It was first published in Boston in
1884 and falsely attributed to Martin Luther. The actual
author is unknown. The tune is by William Kirkpatrick and
dates from 1895.
Tomás Luis de Victoria (c. 1548 – 1611) was one of the most
important composers of the Counter-Reformation. He worked
in Rome from 1565 and may have studied with Palestrina. He
returned to Spain in 1587 and worked at Descalzas Reales for
the remainder of his life.
O Magnum Mysterium is a responsorial chant from the Matins
for Christmas.
O magnum mysterium,
et admirabile sacramentum,
ut animalia viderent Dominum
natum,
jacentem in praesepio!
Beata Virgo, cujus viscera
meruerunt portare
Dominum Christum.
Alleluia.

O great mystery,
and wonderful sacrament,
that animals should see the newborn Lord,
lying in a manger!
Blessed is the Virgin whose
womb
was worthy to bear
Christ the Lord.
Alleluia!

Dietrich Buxtehude (c. 1637 – 1707) was probably born in
Helsingborg and spent much of his life in Lübeck where he
was the organist at the Marienkirche. He enjoyed
considerable autonomy in his career and attracted many
musicians to his evening performances at the church.
Handel, JS Bach and Mattheson all travelled to hear him.
In dulci jubilo dates from the fourteenth century. The German
mystic Heinrich Seuse wrote that he heard angels singing the
song and joined them in a dance.
1. In dulci jubilo,
Nun singet und seid froh!
Unsers Herzens Wonne liegt
in praesepio,
Und leuchtet als die Sonne
Matris in gremio,
Alpha es et O!

1. In quiet joy
Now sing with hearts aglow!
Our delight and pleasure lies
in a manger;
Like sunshine is our treasure
in the mother's lap.
Thou art Alpha and Omega

2. O Jesu parvule
Nach dir ist mir so weh!
Tröst' mir mein Gemüte
O puer optime
Durch alle deine Güte
O princeps gloriae.
Trahe me post te!
Eia, wären wir da!

2. O tiny Jesus
For thee I long alway;
Comfort my heart's blindness,
O best of boys
With all Thy loving kindness,
O prince of glory
Draw me after Thee
O that we were there!

3. O Patris caritas!
O Nati lenitas!
Wir wären all verloren
(verdorben)
Per nostra crimina
So hat er uns erworben
Coelorum gaudia

3. O love of the Father
O gentleness of the Son
Deeply were we stainèd
Through our sins
But Thou for us hast gainèd
The joy of heaven

4. Ubi sunt gaudia
Nirgend mehr denn da!
Da die Engel singen
Nova cantica,
Und die Schellen klingen
In regis curia.
Eia, wären wir da!

4. Where are joys
In any place but there?
There are angels singing
New songs
And there the bells are ringing
In the king's court
O that we were there!

Concert Organiser – Ian Butler
The manager and volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood
Centre provide light refreshments (wine juice fruit savouries) and
charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre

~~~~~~~~~~
To get information on future concerts
go to acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, write to
membership.secretary@acms-sydney.org
or to ACMS Membership Secretary,
PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

