Debussy’s early piano piece Tarentelle Styrienne was first published in 1891 but in 1903
was reissued under the new title Danse, with a few small revisions. This arrangement
(1981) for clarinet quartet is by Jean Thilde was also recorded by the Thurston Clarinet
Quartet.

Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
SULLIVAN (1842 – 1900) Three Little Maids from School
Sir Arthur Sullivan is best known for his series of 14 operatic collaborations with the
dramatist W. S. Gilbert, including such works as 'H.M.S. Pinafore', 'The Pirates of
Penzance' and 'The Mikado'. This arrangement for four clarinets by Roderick Ellem is of
the well known song from Act 1 of The Mikado, sung by Yum-Yum, Peep-Bo and PittiSing on their return to Titi-pu from school.

www.KNCsydney.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 2 March 2014
5pm

Next concert - program includes BACH Two Arias, HANDEL Arias for
Two Cellos, SPOHR Six German Songs, a piece by POULENC
The manager and volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
provide light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and charge $10
entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”)
and click on “Concerts”
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and
click on “Join Us”, or email membership@acms-sydney.org, or write to
ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

- Notes -

Amateur Chamber Music Society

GRUNDMAN (1913 – 1996) Caprice

http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

Claire Grundman composed scores for films, radio, and television, as well as

— CONCERT —
5pm Sunday 2 March 2014 (first Sunday in March)
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.KNCsydney.org
tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —

orchestrations for Broadway musicals. He is best known for his many compositions and
arrangements for symphonic band but he also wrote a number of works for various
chamber ensembles. The Caprice can be played by clarinet choir or clarinet quartet.

CARR (1961 - ) Five English Postcards
Paul Carr is an English classical music composer who has written a number of works,
often in a lighter style including concertos for clarinet, oboe, flute, piano and viola. He
has also scored several British films and television programmes. The 'Five English
Postcards' were composed for the Thurston Clarinet Quartet and consist of five short
sketches illustrating traditional English life.

GRUNDMAN Caprice
CARR Five English Postcards
(1) Summer Parade (2) Tea (3) Village Dance
(4) Sunday Afternoon (5) Celebration
Clarinet Quartet: Andrew Cousins David LaMotte
Carolyn LaMotte Peter Scaysbrook

HAYDN (1732-1809) Keyboard Trio in A major HobXV:18
Joseph Haydn’s life was mostly stable compared to that of Mozart and Beethoven. After
30 years as musical director in the court of the Esterházy family, he had become famous
throughout Europe and was financially secure. Aged 61, he composed this trio in 1793

3+15’

between two hugely successful and lucrative visits to London. His life was not entirely a
bed of roses because his marriage was not a happy one.

HAYDN Trio in A major HobXV:18

Beethoven and Mozart both had great respect for Haydn and his music, referring to him
as ‘Papa Haydn’. Their music went beyond Haydn’s limits in many respects, but it is

(1) Allegro moderato (2) Andante (3) Allegro
violin George Carrard cello Sharon Maennl piano Kian Woo
17’

difficult to find music anywhere in the chamber music repertoire that matches Haydn’s
combination of invention and cheerful playfulness exhibited in the last movement of this
trio.

— INTERVAL —
CUI (1835 – 1918) Five Small Duos Op56

CUI Five Small Duos Op56

César Cui was a Russian composer and music critic of French and Lithuanian descent.

(1) Badinage (2) Berceuse (3) Scherzino (4) Nocturne (5) Valse
flute Richard Tardif clarinet Lindsay Wanstall
piano Ji-Hyun Kim

His profession was as an army officer and a teacher of fortifications. In his musical
sideline he is known as a member of The Five, a group of Russian composers under the
leadership of Mily Balakirev which also included Mussorgsky, Rimsky-Korsakov and

12’

Borodin, dedicated to the production of a specifically Russian type of music. The Five
Little Duos (actually for three instruments) are a charming set of short pieces that belie
what one might expect of a Russian military man. They are mostly sunny and light in

DEBUSSY Danse
SULLIVAN Three Little Maids
Clarinet Quartet as above
5+2'

— REFRESHMENTS —
concert organiser Kian Woo

the salon style, although the Nocturne has additional emotional colour.

DEBUSSY (1862-1918) Danse
Along with Maurice Ravel, Claude Debussy was one of the most prominent figures
associated with Impressionist music. Embracing non-traditional scales and tonal
structures, he is one of the most highly regarded composers of the late 19th and early
20th centuries and is seen as the founder of musical impressionism.

