Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/
— CONCERT —
5pm Sunday 7th June 2015 (first Sunday in April)
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.KNCsydney.org tel: 9922 4428
— PROGRAM —
RICHARD STRAUSS - Five Lieder
(1) Heimliche Aufforderung, Op27 No 3
(2) Allerseelen, Op 10 No 8
(3) Traum durch die Dammerung, Op 29 No 1
(4) Morgen, Op 27 No 4
(5) Zueignung, Op 10 No 1
Mezzo-soprano Jo Burton
Piano Murray Brown
25’
MOZART – String Quintet No 3 K515 arranged for flute quintet
(1) Allegro (2) Andante
(3) Menuetto Allegretto (4) Allegro
Flute -  Bridget Armstrong    Violin - Stephen Malloch    Viola - Danny Morris,
Viola - Mikey Floyd    Cello - Nicole McVicar
35’
— INTERVAL —
FRANCK Sonata in A Major 
Transcription for Viola by Joseph Vieland
(1) Allegretto ben moderato (2) Allegro
(3) Recitativo-Fantasia (4) Allegretto poco mosso
Viola - Michelle Urquhart
Piano - Keith Mitchell
30’
— REFRESHMENTS —
- Notes -
STRAUSS Five Lieder
Although well-known for his operas (Salome, Der Rosenkavalier, Capriccio, etc)
and colourful orchestral works such as Don Juan and the Alpine Symphony,
Richard Strauss was also a composer of many songs (lieder in German), most of
them written before 1900. He was not an innovator like Schubert and Wolf, but
had a very good understanding of the expressive possibilities of the female voice.
His elegiac final work, the Four Last Songs for soprano and orchestra, is very
frequently performed.
Strauss had a very long career as an orchestral and opera conductor, as well as
being a prolific composer. He was appointed conductor of the Berlin
Philharmonic at the age of 30 and became director of the Vienna State Opera in
1919.
Strauss married the soprano Pauline de Ahna in 1894. Although she was
famously eccentric and outspoken, it was a happy marriage and she was a source
of inspiration to him. He preferred the soprano voice to all others, and all his
operas contain important soprano roles.
Today's selection ranges from the Wagnerian impulsiveness of the opening
song, Heimliche Aufforderung, through the quiet intensity of Allerseelen and
Morgen and the nature painting of Traum durch die Dämmerung to the almost
religious fervour of the final song, Zueignung. They all demonstrate his ability to
convey heartfelt emotion through an expressive vocal line and a richly textured
accompaniment.
MOZART String Quintet No 3 K515
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's String Quintet No. 3 in C major, like all of
Mozart's string quintets, is a "viola quintet" in that it is scored for string quartet
and an extra viola (two violins, two violas and cello).
The work was completed on April 19, 1787, less than a month before the
completion of his stormy G Minor Quintet, K. 516. This would not be the last
time that a great pair of C major/G minor works of the same form would be
published in close proximity and assigned consecutive Köchel numbers. The
following year, the 40th (G minor) and 41st (C major) symphonies would be
completed within a few weeks of each other.
Unusually this quintet will be played tonight with a flute in place of one of the
violins. The flute and violin will be taking alternate movements reading from the
first violin part. The contrasting textures offer something new to this well known
piece.

FRANCK Sonata in A Major, Transcription for Viola by Joseph Vieland
Cesar Franck, 1822-1890, was a Belgian-French composer, organist and
music teacher from the Romantic Era.
This sonata written in 1886 for violin and piano is Franck’s best known
work aside from his Symphony in D Minor.
It was composed for Eugene Ysaye, the famous Belgian violinist as a
wedding present. Various arrangements have been made of this including
flute, cello and even a tuba.
The work is cyclic in nature (influenced by the writings of Franz Liszt)
where melodic themes reoccur/recur throughout the entire work.
Michelle and Keith enjoy performing and rehearsing on a regular basis,
discovering more of the sonata repertoire for violin and viola and have a
performing tour of Italy fast approaching in July this year. This Sonata
will be part of their program.
concert organiser Mikey Floyd
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre provide light refreshments (wine
juice and savouries) and charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
For/To get information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”)
and click on “Concerts”
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society, which matches players depending on their experience
and arranges informal playing days, an annual music camp, and concerts.
If interested, go to the website and click on “Join Us”, or
email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org, or
write to ACMS Membership Secretary,
PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093
