ACMS
presents

A
Chamber
Music
Showcase
at The Independent
Sunday March 15th 2015
3:00 - 5:00pm

From the President

The ACMS is an association of people who love playing chamber music.
We hope to provide a range of music for your enjoyment, some familiar, some which will
surprise.
Music is a complicated business. It is not enough to love it in private. It is intended to be
shared with an audience.
The ACMS offers a range of benefits to its members. The primary reason for membership is
that members of the Society have access to a list of players from which they can form groups
to perform particular pieces, or to play together on a regular basis. To encourage interest in
new music and to get to know other performers, the Society holds regular get-togethers
called Playing Days, usually five in a year, where players are allocated groups and have access
to the Society’s extensive library of music. The key event of our year is a three day music
camp held in late January at the Wollongong Conservatorium.
Members also have regular opportunities to perform at Sunset Concerts at the Kirribilli
Neighbourhood Centre, and now we can move on from that test bed to enjoy the
opportunity to perform at The Independent Theatre. For some people getting together to
play music is what it is all about, for others a performance provides a focus and the satisfaction of having an audience.
Susan Butler
President, ACMS

The ACMS would like to thank Wenona School
for supporting us in presenting this concert.
And you, for your patronage!
We look forward to seeing you again at our
next concert:
Sunday June 14th 2015
featuring
Bridge, Kats-Chernin, Spike, Zemlinsky
Check the Independent website or the ACMS website
for details:
www.theindependent.org.au/whats-on/
www.acms-australia.org/concerts/concerts-at-the-independenttheatre/

PROGRAM
Bruch – Selections from Eight Pieces for Clarinet, Viola and Piano Op 83
Andrew Kennedy (clarinet) | Michelle Urquhart (viola) | Kian Woo (piano)
Beethoven – Violin Sonata in E Flat Major Op 12 No 3
Tracey Tsang (violin) | Benjamin Chan (piano)

INTERVAL
Beethoven – Duet for Violin and Viola
Inge Courtney-Haentjes (violin) | Michelle Urquhart (viola)
Schubert – Lebensstürme; Characteristic Allegro Op 144
Rachel Valler OAM (piano) | Susan Butler (piano)
Milhaud – Suite Op 157b Incidental music from
“Le Voyageur Sans Bagage” by Jean Anouilh
Andrew Kennedy (clarinet) | Tracey Tsang (violin) | Benjamin Chan (piano)
Yoann Bretonnet (Narrator)

Max Bruch (1838-1920) -- Selections from
Eight Pieces for Clarinet, Viola and Piano Op 83
1. Andante
2. Allegro con moto
3. Andante con moto
4. Allegro agitato
5. Rumänsche Melodie: Andante
7. Allegro vivace, ma non troppo
Were it not for his son being a magnificent clarinet player, we may never have heard anything
other than solos for stringed instruments with orchestra by Bruch, as many of his earlier and less
grand pieces have been lost. Possibly surviving due to their late date and position as a family
heirloom, the Eight Pieces use a rare combination of two instruments with nearly identical ranges
and remarkable blending qualities. The clarinet and viola soliloquize, converse, reflect, and affirm
each other throughout, whilst the piano is treated more as an accompanying orchestra, usually
suppor ting, occasionally embellishing. Each piece stands alone, and the composer specified that
they can be played in any order. They have the most simple structures, binary (A-B) or ternary
(A-B-A) form, except for the sonata/ternary form with variations of the last two pieces. The
mood is often autumnal, gently optimistically, or contemplative, perhaps reflective of Bruch’s age.
The sparse opening to a melancholy and somewhat unsettled first piece evolves through some
operatic interplay, using very large upward leaps, to find acceptance in a major key. The lush arpeggios at the close from the piano create a mystical or heavenly mood. Even after an ominous
rolling beginning, piece number two eventually settles, from a swirling green stormy ocean to a
flat reassuring calm by the end.
Perhaps the most theatrical, piece three has the viola playing angry recitative in a very bright C
Sharp Minor, alternating with a soothing hymn. The clarinet, attempting to placate the deep terse
string sound, whispers and soars ever higher. Next, the four th piece uses pecky, militaristic rhythm
and heavy punishing accents in D Minor to create desperation, once again giving way to carefree
flowing delight in D Major near the end.
Whilst only the fifth piece, Rumänische Melodie, has a title specifying its origin, it is possible that
Bruch adapted other folk music in this opus of miniatures. All the instrumental lines are very
singable, and he had cer tainly incorporated Scottish, Swedish, Hebrew, Welsh, Russian, and Celtic
tunes into his other works. Finally, the seventh movement’s sparkling mood is a refreshing salve
after a lot of intense music. As is customary in a rondo, the very first musical idea will be played
again and again, sometimes as a surprise, or in a new guise.

The Ensemble
Andrew Kennedy – Clarinet
As a child Andrew gravitated to all things musical. He was awarded a scholarship in Astrophysics
by the University of Tasmania, concurrently majoring in clarinet performance at the Tasmanian
Conservatorium of Music. After graduating as an Anaesthetist, Andrew took up clarinet
again and has been principal clarinet of the New South Wales, Australian, and World Doctors’
Orchestras, and performed in series and tours with the Barega Saxophone Quartet, Ensemble
Astor and Wind Energy. In 2015 Andrew will give a series of concerts entitled Le Voyageur
Sans Bagage, culminating in a performance at the Utzon Room of the Sydney Opera House
on 19th April, where his newest composition, Sun and Moon, will premiere.
Michelle Urquhart – Viola
Michelle studied music at the Sydney and Hobart Conservatoriums under teachers Alex
Todicescu and Jeremy Williams. She performs regularly as a freelance violist and violinist,
as soloist, chamber musician and orchestral instrumentalist. Michelle has also been soloist
with a number of Sydney based orchestras. Michelle’s passion is playing chamber music
and teaching. Michelle has her own teaching studios in St Ives, Hornsby and on the Central
Coast. Michelle is also organizer of the annual Eisteddfod on the Mountain held in the
outlying areas of the Central Coast. Michelle runs her own chamber music ‘festivals’ (playing
weekends) at her property on the Central Coast for like-minded musicians and friends who
never tire of chamber music playing!
Kian Woo – Piano
Kian has a Bachelor of Information Technology from the University of Technology, Sydney
and a Bachelor of Arts in Graphic Design from Central Saint Martin’s College of Art and
Design in London. He currently works as a software developer. Kian started learning the
piano at the age of eight. He completed his AMusA Diploma in 1998, while studying with
Paul Virag. Kian joined the ACMS in 2010 and has been a regular performer in A Chamber
Music Showcase. He is currently undertaking further study with Rachel Valler. In April, Kian
will be performing in Le
Voyageur Sans Bagage at
the Utzon Room of the
Sydney Opera House, playing
Bruch and world premieres
by Australian composers.

L-R: Kian Woo, Andrew Kennedy, Michelle Urquhart

Ludwig van Beethoven (1770-1827) -- Violin Sonata
in E Flat Major Op 12 No 3
1. Allegro con spirito
2. Adagio con molt’espressione
3. Rondo - Allegro molto

Beethoven’s E Flat Major Sonata is the third, and last, of the Opus 12 set, all composed
between 1797 and 1798 and dedicated to Antonio Salieri, one of Beethoven’s teachers and
an influential Kapellmeister of the Hapsburg court in Vienna. Written around the same time
as the Piano Sonatas Numbers. 4 and 7, the Opus 9 String Trios, the Opus 18 String
Quar tets and the first Piano Concerto, the influence of Franz Josef Haydn, another of
Beethoven’s Viennese teachers, can also be heard. The general feeling of this Sonata is one
of youthful joy that is almost addictive.
As the Sonata begins, the piano takes a virtuosic leadership role; the second theme is
introduced by the violin. With positive energy and mood, the music flows effortlessly and
its jolly character cannot be contained. The Adagio that follows, in C Major, is beautiful, with
the two instruments alternating in singing the main line. The mellifluous lines are natural and
uninhibited and occasionally complemented by the rhythmic figures of the accompaniment.
The Rondo theme is catchy, reminiscent of Haydn’s Hungarian panache. The two
instruments are playful with each other, with a constant exchange of themes. Pleasing is the
best way, perhaps, to describe the end of the Sonata, at the conclusion of a twenty minute
work filled with bliss, hope, and delight.

The Ensemble
Tracey Tsang - Violin
Benjamin Chan - Piano
Tracey and Benjamin have known each other for approximately 16 years, first being in the
same orchestra and sharing the same violin teacher (as Benjamin also plays violin), before
reuniting a few years later through chamber music. Tracey and Benjamin now enjoy exploring
the chamber music repertoire together, and have performed at a number of successful
fundraising and philanthropic events, and other gigs. They are the founding members of the
Colleghi group and have performed with other musical colleagues under this name.
Although both Tracey and Benjamin have achieved their Licentiate Diploma of Music
(LMusA), they both continue to play music for the love of it, and have completely different
professions during the day – Benjamin has a business background and is working for the
Commonwealth Bank, whilst Tracey is a post-doctoral researcher for The University of
Sydney, working at The Children’s Hospital at Westmead.

L-R : Tracey Tsang, Benjamin Chan

Ludwig van Beethoven (1770-1827) -- Duet for Violin and
Viola Op 27 No 1 in C Major
1. Allegro commodo
2. Larghetto sostenuto
3. Rondo Allegretto

Born in Bonn, Germany, Beethoven is known as the ‘Father of the Romantic Era’. He studied
under both Haydn and Mozart, and was a composer and pianist. Beethoven’s life can be
divided into three periods. The early period in Vienna was his virtuosic pianist years. His
compositions were focused on his main instrument at this time, and were classical in style,
such as the Pathétique Sonata Op 13 (1798). The middle period, known as the ‘Heroic
Period’ is often thought to be his most productive period, during which Beethoven started
writing music in a more romantic style. Some of his works from this period include the
Tempest Sonata Op 31 (1801-2), the Third Symphony (Eroica) Op 55 (1803), Beethoven’s only
opera, Fidelio Op 72 (1803-5) and the Fifth Piano Concerto (Emperor) Op 73 (1809). In his
late period Beethoven wrote some of his largest works, the Mass in D (Missa Solemnis) Op
123 (1818-23), the Ninth Symphony (Choral) Op 125 (1818-23) and the late string quartets.
Beethoven’s Duet in C Major is the first of three duets originally written for clarinet and
bassoon. These duets have gained a significant place in the woodwind chamber music
literature and are still reflected in the Beethoven catalogue. They were composed in
1790-92 and first published in parts from 1810-15. In character they reflect part of the
earliest creative stage of Beethoven’s composing career. This duet has been transcribed for
many other pairs of instruments.
The first movement Allegro commodo begins with a lively character. It is in standard Sonata
Form, with two main melodic themes, and the lower instrument taking on a harmonically
supportive role. The second movement, Larghetto sostenuto, is in the parallel minor key of
C Minor. This is a lyrical movement, contrasting in character to the lively first and third
movements. The third movement, Rondo Allegretto, returns in the tonic key of C Major and
is in a typical Rondo Form. This movement’s refrain is full of classical grace and style, contrasting with the busy triplets in the episodic ideas, played by both instruments.

The Ensemble
Inge Courtney-Haentjes - Violin
Inge studied at the Music Conservatorium in Freiburg, Germany. After coming to Australia
in 1983 she worked with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra for a few years, at the same time
teaching music and raising a young family. Inge has recorded, toured and performed with
many groups, opera ensembles and orchestras, often as concertmaster or soloist.
Apart from her love of classical and baroque music, Inge also frequently performs and tours
with tango and jazz ensembles, and very much enjoys exploring a wide variety of musical
expressions which this has offered her. Chamber music, however, is the basis of Inge’s
philosophy of music making and probably her greatest passion. It has been part of her
musical life and upbringing since earliest childhood.
Michelle Urquhart - Viola
Michelle studied music at the Sydney and Hobart Conservatoriums under teachers
Alex Todicescu and Jeremy Williams. She performs regularly as a freelance violist and violinist,
as soloist, chamber musician and orchestral instrumentalist. Michelle has also been soloist
with a number of Sydney based orchestras. Michelle’s passion is playing chamber music
and teaching. Michelle has her own teaching studios in St Ives, Hornsby and on the Central
Coast. Michelle is also organizer of the annual Eisteddfod on the Mountain held in the
outlying areas of the Central Coast. Michelle runs her own chamber music ‘festivals’ (playing
weekends) at her property on the Central Coast for like-minded musicians and friends who
never tire of chamber music playing!
In playing together both Inge and
Michelle feel that there is a special
connection and flow between
them, making it a privilege, and an
effor tless and very enjoyable
experience. They both firmly
believe that the joy of playing
chamber music is not only the music
itself, but also the connection and
communication that comes from
sharing music with others.

L-R: Michelle Urquhart, Inge Courtney-Haentjes

Franz Schubert (1797-1828) -- Lebensstürme;
Characteristic Allegro Op 144

Schubert was a prolific composer of duets, some of which are still regularly performed
today. He was not himself a virtuoso performer, - indeed it is said he was not actually
able to play some of the works he composed. Perhaps he took refuge in duets, where
his supposed pianistic deficiencies would not be so obvious!
This work has a very portentous title, (‘Storms of Life’), conjuring up all sorts of emotional excesses, and yet it seems less deeply moving than Schubert’s Fantasy in F Minor.
It certainly is loud and insistent at times, and without due care in performance, the frequent repetition of the hammered-out motif which opens the piece might indeed seem
excessive. There are of course some soft and reflective contrasting sections, with tinkly
treble embellishments. There is also a section where the main theme is ‘abstracted’,
with pared-down harmony and a shifted rhythm - rather inventive!
Overall, one would have to say that the mood is positive, that is that the storms are
successfully weathered!

The Ensemble
Rachel Valler OAM - Piano
Rachel Valler is one of Australia’s most distinguished
pianists, having performed as a soloist with most
of Australia’s symphony orchestras as well as in
numerous chambers ensembles. She has been
an associate artist and toured with international
and local musicians. She has also performed for
the Sydney Mozart Society and major music clubs
throughout the state. As a member of The
Hazelwood Trio Rachel toured South-East Asia, the
United Kingdom and Europe for Musica Viva and
the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. She
has tutored for many years at the Robertson String Development Camp and for the
ACMS, of which she is a Patron. For her services to music, particularly as a pianist,
Rachel was awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia in 1995.

Susan Butler – Piano
Susan Butler obtained her AMusA Diploma at the
age of fifteen and has, through her connection with
the ACMS, of which she is now the President,
become a devoted chamber music player over the
last decade.

Darius Milhaud (1892-1974) -- Incidental music
from “Le Voyageur Sans Bagage” by Jean Anouilh
1. Ouverture
2. Divertissement
3. Jeu
4. Introduction et Final

Le Voyageur Sans Bagage, is very often performed as Suite for Violin, Clarinet and Piano, but
is actually a bracket of incidental music from the play about memory and identity by Jean
Anouilh. The play begins with Gaston, a soldier recently sent home after 18 years in an
asylum in France, being paraded to various families who claim he is their long lost relative.
In the first movement, Ouverture, we are prepared for the energetic verbal dance of the
characters by a sunny, cheeky march that suggests Gaston driving optimistically through the
back roads to find his hidden roots. Immediately the composer’s first-hand knowledge of
violin playing is on show, the writing technically demanding, but insightful and manageable,
giving an exciting ride for the audience. The piano uses a variety of vamping and effervescent
syncopation to give a view of this scene.
Next, Divertissement is a much more intimate and sentimental piece, with just clarinet and
violin - perhaps a view of a grandparent watching a child, the young Gaston, at play. Suddenly
the music dies, the violin rests, and the mood becomes distant and glassy. The violin
reappears and coaxes back the happy memories. The flowing of the music, seldom resting, is
like turning the pages of a book. In the play, the soldier is getting small flashes and anecdotes
fed to him, his story is being reconstructed slowly.
In Jeu (Game), the pianist spies on the relationship of the other two musicians. It could be
an illustration of the interaction of two blissful teenage lovers, or children chasing each other
in a game where the rules change and deeper emotions are uncovered.
Introduction et Final begins with the only dark music of the work. The parts are heavy, insistent and
overlapping, and there are five beats per bar, creating ambiguity and tension, reflecting the
inner conflict of the protagonist. We don’t know what decision the soldier has come to - to
stay with the aristocratic family that hate him but want him back nevertheless, or to adopt a
simpler family where he not only has no memory, but also has no past.

The Ensemble
Andrew Kennedy – Clarinet
As a child Andrew gravitated to all things musical. He was awarded a scholarship in Astrophysics by
the University of Tasmania, concurrently majoring in clarinet performance at the Tasmanian
Conservatorium of Music. After graduating as an Anaesthetist, Andrew took up clarinet again and
has been principal clarinet of the New South Wales, Australian, and World Doctors’ Orchestras, and
performed in series and tours with the Barega Saxophone Quartet, Ensemble Astor and Wind Energy.
In 2015 Andrew,Tracey, Ben and Yoann will give a series of concerts entitled Le Voyageur Sans Bagage,
culminating in a performance at the Utzon Room of the Sydney Opera House on 19th April,
premiering Andrew’s newest composition, Sun and Moon.
Tracey Tsang - Violin
Tracey has played the violin since she was five years old, having being taught by Marjorie Hystek,
Perry Hart, Peter Zhang, Faina Krel, and Jeremy Williams. She was formerly the Concert Master
of the SBS Radio and Television Youth Orchestra, and recently performed as Associate Concert
Master with the Rossini Strings Camerata. Tracey co-founded the Colleghi Duo with pianist/violinist
Benjamin Chan. Career-wise,Tracey has her PhD and is a full-time medical researcher, hoping to
contribute to improvements in diagnosis,
management, and outcomes for children and L-R : Benjamin Chan, Tracey Tsang
families affected by fetal alcohol spectrum
disorders.
Benjamin Chan - Piano
Benjamin has been playing both the piano and
violin since an early age. Benjamin was awarded
his AMusA Diploma in piano in 2003 and the
LMusA Diploma in violin the following year.
Benjamin was also a member of the SBS Radio
and Television Youth Orchestra where he met
Tracey Tsang, with whom he has collaborated in various chamber music ensembles. Benjamin
actively pursues his love of music by regularly performing on both instruments with Colleghi Duo
and other ensembles. Benjamin holds a Bachelor of Commerce/Bachelor of Arts degree and
works at the Commonwealth Bank as a Video Conference Business Banking Specialist.
Yoann Bretonnet - Narrator
Yoann was born in France, where he first learned drama and improvisation. Now an Australian
citizen, he has been living in Sydney for the past six years. Yoann began to follow his passion for
acting again two years ago by joining the Sydney French Theatre. Joann has participated in two
shows, produced in French: Dans l’ombre du theatre and Je t’aime, moi non plus. Yoann’s goal now is
to expand his skills by playing in English. In April he will appear as the soldier, Gaston, in Le Voyageur
Sans Bagage with Andrew Kennedy and friends.

Annual Wollongong
Music Camp
The ACMS residential Music Camp is the highlight of our year and it attracts players from interstate. Par ticipation is open to members only, or
to members of affiliated societies interstate.
The Music Camp is held over three days on the University of Wollongong
campus in late January each year. Members can indulge in chamber music
playing for a full three days in delightful, relaxing surroundings. Events include
a dinner and barbeque.The camp provides opportunities for both organised
and self-arranged sessions of chamber music. Tutors are engaged to
provide some chamber music tuition. There are opportunities to perform
shor t pieces in lunchtime concer ts or simply enjoy the informal
performances by being part of the audience.

DATES for the 2016 MUSIC CAMP
From 5.30pm Friday 22nd to 4.30pm Monday 25th January.

Join Us!
Free Playing Day!
The ACMS organises a Playing Day every second month where members
get together to play chamber music.
We also offer:
• a membership register for contacting other players;
• a comprehensive library of chamber music for loan;
• regular opportunities to play with other members; and
• opportunities to perform works to a public audience.
For more information or to attend a free Playing Day,
visit our website or send us an email.
Website: www.acms-australia.org
Email:
membership.secretary@acms-australia.org

Cover art courtesy of Judith White and Rachel Scott from “The Painted Bach” performance

