The vitality and verve of the opening pervade the entire first movement, whose
unified thematic structure shows the influence of Beethoven and Schumann.
There is extensive dialogue between the cello and piano, and an ingenious
four-part fugue leads into the recapitulation. The second movement, with its
pensive, dark-hued atmosphere and sensitive theme in “romanza” style, is
clearly inspired by Mendelssohn, possibly by one of his “Songs without Words.”
(Strauss also composed a Romance for Cello and Orchestra in the same year,
1883.) In the Finale, Strauss draws inspiration from Mendelssohn’s Scottish
Symphony and Wagner’s Parsifal (which he had heard in Bayreuth). In

Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
www.KNCsydney.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert

addition, the movement reveals some unmistakably Straussian characteristics,
including a cadence that foreshadows his own Elektra, written fifteen years
later.
The F Major Cello Sonata was written for the Czech cellist Hanus Wihan, who
gave the first performance in Nuremberg on the 8th of December, 1883.
(Twelve years later, Wihan was the dedicatee of Dvořák’s Cello Concerto).

The manager and volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
provide light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and charge $10
entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”)
and click on “Concerts”
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and
click on “Join Us”, or email membership@acms-sydney.org, or write to
ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

Sunday 1 March 2015
5pm

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— CONCERT —
5.00pm Sunday 1 March 2015 (first Sunday in March)
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.KNCsydney.org
tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
KUHLAU Flute Quintet in A major (1822)
flute Bridget Armstrong
violin Stephen Malloch viola Danny Morris
viola Mikey Floyd violoncello Nicole McVicar
10'

RICHARD STRAUSS Sonata for Cello and Piano
in F major Op. 6

- Notes -

FRIEDRICH KUHLAU (1786-1832) "The Beethoven of the flute"
During his lifetime Kuhlau was known as a concert pianist and composer of
operas based on Danish folk themes. He was a great admirer of Beethoven,
knowing him personally, and he was well known in Denmark for introducing
Beethoven's music to Copenhagen audiences.
Today, his most well-known and recorded works consist of his piano sonatinas
and works for flute. There could have been a need for financial security to lead
him to diversify: he composed more than 70 core works for flute. It is because
of these flute works that he was nicknamed "the Beethoven of the flute".
He composed three quintets scored for flute, violin, two violas, and cello. Today
we will be playing quintet No. 3 in A major, composed in 1822.

(1) Allegro con brio (2) Andante ma non troppo
(3) Finale (Allegro vivo)
violoncello Robyn Godfrey piano Christine Edwards
30’

RICHARD STRAUSS (1864 – 1949) Sonata for Cello and Piano

— INTERVAL —
Richard Strauss was born in 1864 into a musical household, and began

FAURE Piano Quintet No. 1
Second movement: Adagio
violin Vania Chan violin Sheila Fitzpatrick viola Danny Morris
violoncello Nicole McVicar piano Nick Stokes
10’

MILHAUD Suite – Incidental Music to the play
“Le Voyager Sans Baggage” –
The Traveller Without Luggage (1936)
(1) Ouverture (2) Divertissement (3) Jeu (4) Introduction et Final
violin Tracy Tsang
clarinet Andrew Kennedy
piano Benjamin Chan
11'

— REFRESHMENTS —
concert organiser Tony Tenney

studying the piano aged four. At the age of six he began composing, at eight he
was learning violin and at eleven was studying theory of music, harmony and
instrumentation. He was encouraged by his horn-playing father to study the
works of the great masters such as Beethoven, Mendelssohn and Schumann
and the influence of these composers can be heard in Strauss’s Cello Sonata
which he began to compose in 1881 at the age of 17.
He revised the work extensively during the winter of 1882–1883, preserving
only the introductory Allegro con brio, in which the cello is treated in a heroic
style anticipating his tone poem of 1888, “Don Juan”. When the sonata was
first performed in Berlin in 1884, he was congratulated on the opening lyrical
theme by the legendary violinist and composer Joseph Joachim.

DARIUS MILHAUD (1892 - 1974) The Traveller Without Luggage – a soldier
with a past but without his memory

“Don’t be afraid of writing something people can remember and whistle – don’t ever
feel discomforted by a melody”. So said Darius Milhaud to Burt Bacharach, his
pupil along with blues pianist Dave Brubeck. These yet-to-be-famous popular
musicians sought him out as their professor due to his reputation as an outstanding
French composer who incorporated jazz and Latin music into his works. While
Milhaud liked a jaunty tune and a shovelful of whimsy, not needing overt complexity
of rhythm and melody, nor extravagant orchestras, he was a prolific radical
modernist composer who tended to defy the listeners’ expectations with sudden
polytonality. Often two instruments will play a parallel scale in different keys, or will
suddenly move into a distantly-related mode just for three beats, resulting in a
comical, offbeat, unsettled, or mystic atmosphere.

That brings us to Le Voyageur Sans Baggage, very often performed as “Suite for
Violin, Clarinet and Piano” but actually a bracket of incidental music from the play
about memory and identity by Jean Anouilh, author of Antigone. The play begins
with Gaston, a soldier recently sent home after eighteen years in an asylum in
France, being paraded to various families who claim he is their long lost son, brother
or cousin. An unstoppably posh Duchess insists he must be of good breeding and
bemoans the fact he doesn’t realise how amazing his story is. Meanwhile, the
soldier is growing tired as he nears an interview with the four hundredth family that
allegedly recognises him.

The levity of the first act is complemented by the music. In the first movement,
“Ouverture”, we are prepared for the energetic verbal dance of the characters by a
sunny, cheeky march that suggests Gaston driving optimistically through the back
roads to find his hidden roots, and at times just embracing the sights and smells of
the country. Immediately the composer’s first-hand knowledge of violin is on show,
the writing technically demanding but insightful and manageable, giving an exciting
ride for the audience. The piano uses a variety of self-knowing vamping and
effervescent syncopation to give a view of this scene through the fourth wall.

Next, “Divertissement” is a much more intimate and sentimental piece, with only
clarinet and violin - perhaps a view of a grandparent watching a child, the young
Gaston, at play. There are bigger issues being explored in the drama, and the music
is less irreverent. Suddenly the music dies, the violin rests, and the mood becomes
distant and glassy. The violin reappears and coaxes back the happy memories. The
flowing of the music, seldom resting, is like turning the pages of a book, unable to
stop being engrossed in a tale. In the play, the soldier is getting small flashes and
anecdotes fed to him, his story is being reconstructed slowly.

In “Jeu” (“Game”), the pianist spies on the relationship of the two other musicians.
It could be an illustration of the interaction of two blissful teenage lovers, or children
chasing each other in a game where the rules change and deeper emotions are
uncovered. There is unbridled vigour, with very slightly lengthened notes followed
by cascades of enthusiastic notes, tumbling and laughing - then the first lover
speaks with poetic sweetness to woo the dear one. The response is suddenly in a
new key – they aren’t from the same world, they have different expectations of the
game. And rapidly it’s back to business as usual with the crazy romantic/childish
rush of peppy staccato and brilliant scales.

The fourth part, “Introduction et Final”, begins with the only dark music of the
work. The parts are heavy, instistent and overlapping, and the writing is five beats
per bar, creating ambiguity and tension, reflecting the inner conflict of the
protagonist. When the group quietens, it is perhaps more unsettling, we don’t know
what decision the soldier has come to, to stay with this aristocratic family that hates
him but wants him back nevertheless, or to adopt a simpler family where he not
only has no memory, but also has no past?
The curtain draws with a merry dance, including some lines reminiscent of old
Western movies. Here Milhaud’s habit of ignoring normal relationships of keys is on
display, the tonality can either change in a flash, or be completely overlapped and
sound wrong, but somehow right, exactly as the future direction is for Gaston.

