- Notes -

ACMS
www.acms-australia.org/concerts

— CONCERT —
5pm Sunday 6th December 2015
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.KNCsydney.org
tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
BRAHMS Six Songs
(1) Wie Melodien zieht es mir (2) Die Mainacht (3) Sonntag
(4) Regenlied (5) Sapphische Ode (6) Mein Liebe ist grun
mezzo soprano Chris Middleton piano Jane Smith

SPOHR Four German Songs
(1) Sei still mein Herz (2) Zwiegesang
(4) Wiegenlied (6) Wach auf
soprano Susan Butler viola Peter Mitchell
piano Felicia Mitchell

— INTERVAL —

SAINT-SAENS – GAUBERT - RAVEL
Songs with flute obligato
soprano Allison Rowlands flute Cathy Wainwright
piano Murray Brown

CAROLS
sopranos Susan Butler, Yeesum Lo, Glenda Woolnough
altos Christine Middleton, Eveline Schultheiss, Patsy Short
tenors Rosemary Rayfuse, Vivien Shih
basses Ian Butler, Hugh Wilson
piano Patsy Short

BRAHMS (1833-1897) Six Songs
Brahms wrote over 260 songs (lieder) over a period of 40 years. Many were set
to poems of several of his compatriots, although some were settings of
folksongs.
A few of his songs are cheerful, but mostly they are pretty serious. His music is
Romantic in character, although generally the songs have a reflective and often
resigned outlook. They include amazing love songs and reflections on death.
When revisited, these songs are wonderfully fresh. Our enjoyment of them is
informed by our state of mind at the time and also by our background and, one
suspects, even by the nature of today’s society.
SPOHR (1784-1859) Four German Songs op 103
Louis Spohr was born, Ludwig Spohr, in Braunschweig to Karl Heinrich Spohr,
a flautist and Juliane Henke, a gifted singer and pianist. Louis himself was a
composer, violinist and conductor and composed symphonies, operas, violin
concertos, clarinet concertos and chamber music. He was highly regarded in
his day, but fell into obscurity after his death, until a revival in the twentieth
century.
Spohr composed the Six German Songs, op 103, in 1837. Johann Hermsted,
one of the most important clarinettists of the day, sent a letter to Spohr at the
instigation of Princess Sondershausen, inviting him to write some songs with
piano and clarinet accompaniment. As this task appealed to Spohr, he
composed the six songs in a few weeks and dedicated them to the princess at
her express wish. Today we will be performing four of the songs, with the
clarinet part being taken by the viola.
SONGS with flute obligato
Tonight we offer you three delightful pieces from the world of 19th and early
20th century France - a period of great change and turmoil, which in the world
of music brought the evolution of particular French instrumental styles with
new subtleties and nuances.
SAINT-SAENS (1835-1921) Une Flûte Invisible
(Poem by Victor Hugo)
We start with a charming trio by Camille Saint-Saëns – Une Flûte Invisible – a
setting of words by Victor Hugo, one of the most important French Romantic
poets, novelists and dramatists of the 19th Century. The original poem was
published in 1846 and Saint-Saëns composed this trio in 1885, the year of
Victor Hugo’s death.
We will hear with a lover’s ear the sounds of shepherds and birds as peaceful
and joyous music, but of course it is the song of love our lover finds the most
beguiling.
GAUBERT (1879-1941) Soir Païen
(Poem by Albert Samain)
Our next offering is Soir Païen – Grecian Evening – by Philippe Gaubert.
Gaubert was a distinguished performer on the flute, a respected conductor,
and a composer, primarily for the flute. The song is set to a poem by Albert
Samain (a French Symbolist poet) which describes a scene from Greek
mythology – the rage of the day – and sets a languid mood of a romantic
moonlit rendezvous. The legend is that Diana, the goddess of the moon and

the hunt, fell in love with the shepherd Endymion. Since he was mortal, she
asked Zeus to put Endymion into an eternal slumber so she could visit him
throughout the ages.
RAVEL, Maurice (1875-1937) La Flûte Enchantée (from Shéhérazade)
(Poem by Tristan Klingsor)
As a depiction of romantic yearning, La Flûte Enchantée reminds us how
lovers, though separated, can still form an immediate connection through
music. Indeed, Ravel is remembered for once saying: "The only love affair I
have ever had was with music."
CAROLS
PITONI (1657-1743) Cantate Domino
Giuseppe Pitoni was maestro di capella at the Basilica San Marco from 1677 to
the end of his life and held a number of other prestigious positions. He wrote
over 3500 compositions. His style ranges from the polyphony of Palestrina to
the more melodic style of the Baroque and at the time of his death was working
on a Mass for twelve choirs.
This short piece is based on Psalm 149.
TALLEY (1870–1952) Behold that Star
Thomas Washington Talley was a chemistry professor at Fisk University, but
was also a collector of African-American folk songs as well as a singer and
composer. He wrote this song for the New Fisk Jubilee Singers, commenting:
"As the son of an ex-slave, I knew a great many jubilee songs, but none
pertained to Christmas."
PRAETORIUS (1571–1621) Puer natus in Bethlehem
The composer, organist and music theorist Michael Praetorius was one of the
first to introduce Italian musical style to Germany. He mainly wrote for the
church, with both Protestant and Catholic liturgical music.
BYRD (c. 1540–1623) Vidimus Stellam
This short but masterly piece is from William Byrd’s Gradualia of 1607. It is a
communion motet for Epiphany.
BERLIOZ (1803–1869) L'Adieu des bergers a la sainte famille
In 1850, Hector Berlioz wrote an organ piece called L'adieu des bergers for his
friend Joseph-Louis Duc. He then turned it into a choral movement and had it
performed, claiming it to be by an imaginary 17th century composer “Ducré”.
The piece was well received, even by people who disliked his music. The piece
formed the basis of the oratorio L'Enfence du Christ, first performed complete
in 1854.
concert organiser: Susan Butler
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre provide
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries) and
charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
and click on “Concerts”
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society.
If interested, go to the website and click on “Join Us”,
or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org,
or write to ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
www.KNCsydney.org

ACMS
www.acms-australia.org

Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 6th December 2015
5pm

