Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— PROGRAM —
GRIEG Sonata No 3 in C minor Op 45
(1) Allegro molto ed appassionato (2) Allegretto espressivo alla Romanza
(3) Allegro animato
violin George Carrard piano Christine Edwards
25’

Conradin KREUTZER Trio E-flat Op 43
(1) Maestoso - Allegro moderato (2) Andantino Grazioso (3) Rondo
clarinet Lindsay Wanstall bassoon Petrina Slaytor
piano Jennifer MacRitchie
22’

— INTERVAL —

BRAHMS Trio in A minor Op 114
(1 )Allegro (2) Adagio (3) Andantino grazioso (4) Allegro
viola John Keller cello Sharon Maennl piano Neil Semmler
25’

GERSHWIN arr SEMMLER Four Songs
(1) I’ve got rhythm (2) Foggy day
(3) Isn’t it a pity (4) Nice work if you can get it
violin George Carrard viola John Keller
cello Sharon Maennl piano Neil Semmler

complete. The extra effort paid dividends because this is the most
popular of the three, and was also Grieg’s favourite.
Cesar Franck’s only sonata appeared the year before and the influence of
the third movement is apparent in the dramatic opening of Grieg’s Op 45.
Grieg’s balance between the violin and the piano is more even.
In 1892, Belgian musicologist Ernest Closson wrote that the sonata
“must be classed with the most inspired scores ever written … is a marvel
of inspiration, intelligence … [had] Grieg composed nothing but this
sonata it would suffice to hand his name down to posterity.” In view of
this it is hard to understand why this sonata is not as well known as the
violin sonatas of Beethoven, Brahms and Franck.

Conradin KREUTZER (1780-1849) Selection from Trio E-flat
Op 43
Conradin Kreutzer was a German composer and conductor (not to be
confused with the French violinist, conductor and composer Rodophe
Kreutzer, to whom Beethoven dedicated his ninth sonata for violin and
piano). Conradin started to study law but, aged 24, he pursued his
passion for music composition after meeting Haydn in Vienna. Kreutzer
moved to Stuttgart in 1811-12 where he had three operas staged.
Following this success he became Hofkapellmeister (chief musical
director) in Stuttgart, then Kapellmeister in Wurtemburg. The majority of
his better known works were operas and in 1840 he was conductor of the
Cologne Opera. His best known opera is “The Night Camp in Granada”
which was staged for 50 years. The style of Kreutzer’s music is pleasant
and similar to that of Weber. His Septet in E flat was performed last year
in a Schubert Society concert.

15’

— REFRESHMENTS —

- Notes GRIEG (1843-1907) Sonata No 3 in C minor Op 45 (1887)
Grieg wrote three violin sonatas. He completed the first two, Op 8 and
Op 13 in 1867 when he was in his early 20s. They have a Norwegian
flavour, evoking fjords and mountains. Commenting on them was one of
Grieg’s mentors, the Danish composer and musician Niels Gade (18171890), assistant conductor to Mendelssohn at Leipzig, later director of
the important Copenhagen Musical Society. Gade advised Grieg to write
a violin sonata that was “less Norwegian”, to which Grieg retorted that it
would be more so. However 20 years later he stated that his outlook had
become more cosmopolitan. In the third sonata, the influence of
Norwegian folk music appears, but the Norwegian atmosphere does not
dominate.
Grieg was able to compose quickly, finishing the first two sonatas in a
matter of weeks, but his third sonata Op 45 took him several months to

BRAHMS (1833-1897) Trio in A minor Op 114
At the age of 57 Johannes Brahms thought he had finished his work as a
composer. A firm believer that one should not write music unless truly
inspired, he was feeling exhausted and began setting his affairs in order
and writing his will.
But a few months later he visited Meiningen, some 700 km from his
residence in Vienna, heard his friend Mühlfeld play a clarinet concerto
with the ducal court orchestra, and was newly inspired. He wrote to his
friend of 37 years, Clara Schumann, “It is impossible to play the clarinet
better than Herr Mühlfeld does.” He then composed four chamber works
involving clarinet, all of which are frequently performed today. Among
them is the Opus 114, which Brahms himself arranged for viola, cello
and piano.
The wistful, somewhat melancholy timbre of the clarinet, and also of the
viola, permeates the entire piece with the cello and piano parts also often
having an autumnal colour. Some critics unfairly have characterized the
Trio as being a bit austere. It would perhaps be more accurate to
describe the emotions as being held close to the vest, rather than being
grandly expansive. But this very intimacy leads to wonderful byplay
between the instruments, as if they are old friends completing each

other’s musical thoughts. http://paulthomasonwriter.com/brahms-trio-in-a-minor-op-114-forpiano-clarinet-and-cello/

GERSHWIN (1898-1937) arr SEMMLER Four short
pieces
George Gershwin, named after his grandfather Jakov Gershowitz of St
Petersburg, was the son of immigrants to America. He lived a usual
childhood existence for children of New York tenements - running around
with his boyhood friends (mainly in the Yiddish Theatre District), roller
skating and misbehaving in the streets. Remarkably, he cared nothing
for music until the age of ten. When his parents bought a piano for his
brother, Ira, it was George who monopolised it, much to Ira’s relief. His
natural talent showed early and from his late teens he got work
arranging and composing for piano rolls, musicals, and film. At 26 he
wrote his much loved “Rhapsody in Blue” orchestrated by a colleague.
“Nice Work If You Can Get It” and “Foggy Day” were two of nine songs
written for the film A Damsel in Distress, lyrics by Ira, sung by Fred
Astair. The film was produced in 1937, the year that Gershwin died,
aged 39, from a brain tumour. “I’ve Got Rhythm”, a hit, was notably
used in a 1930 musical Girl Crazy. Its chord progression, known as the
"rhythm changes", is the foundation for many other popular jazz tunes.
“Isn’t It A Pity” was written for the musical Pardon My English, which
satirises the Prohibition era.
Many of George Gershwin’s songs have made their way into the popular
Jazz repertoire as ‘standards’. Unlike improvised jazz, the arrangements
are through-composed and intended for chamber or orchestral
musicians. Stylistically they are removed jazz for a more Schubertian or
even salon-genre sound. Neil believes the inclusion of orchestral
instruments allows for richer sounds and smoother melodic lines than
piano solo or jazz trio versions.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Gershwin, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_Got_Rhythm,
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pardon_My_English
Postscript: George Gershwin’s grandniece, Lisa-ann Gershwin, works for the CSIRO in
Tasmania and recently published a book showing how jellyfish are taking over as the sea
temperature warms.

concert organiser George Carrard
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre porovide light refreshments
(wine juice and savouries) and charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society, which matches players depending on their
experience and arranges informal playing days, an annual music camp, and
concerts. If interested, go to the website and click on “Join Us”, or write to ACMS
Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093 or email
membership.secretary@acms-australia.org

Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli - tel: 9922 4428 - www.KNCsydney.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 1 November 2015
5pm

