~~ PROGRAM ~~

SCHUBERT, Franz (1797 - 1828)
Erstes Offertorium - Totus in corde langueo, D.136

SCHUBERT - Erstes Offertorium - Totus in corde langueo, D.136
Der Hirt auf dem Felsen, D.965

Sarah Arnold (soprano) | Andrew Cousins (clarinet)
Ross McDonald (piano)

Composed in 1815, this work is one of five pieces described as
‘offertories’. Schubert originally employed the term ‘aria’ for this work,
not in the operatic sense of the word, but meaning it should be sung.
Works of this kind were described as being in the ‘theatrical style’ in
the Papal Encyclical of Benedict XIV, and were condemned by the
Church as being too worldly. It was originally written for a small
orchestra with clarinet obbligato.
Der Hirt auf dem Felsen, D.965 - (The Shepherd on the Rock)

PROKOFIEV - Sonata for Flute and Piano in D Major, Op 94
(i) Moderato (ii) Allegretto Scherzando (iii) Andante (iv) Allegro con brio

Cathy Wainwright (flute) | Linda Kurti (piano)

~ INTERVAL ~

This song was composed in the final months of Schubert's life, and was
published posthumously. Of the seven verses, the first four and the
last are from the poet Wilhelm Müller, while verses five and six were
written by Karl August Varnhagen von Ense. The first section is warm
as the lonely shepherd, high on the mountain top, listens to the echoes
rising from below. The second section becomes quite dark as the
shepherd expresses his all-encompassing grief and loneliness, whilst
the final section speaks of hope, anticipating the coming of Spring and,
with it, rebirth.

PROKOFIEV, Sergei (1891 – 1953)
BRAHMS - Trio in A Minor, Op.114
(i) Allegro (ii) Adagio (iii) Andantino grazioso (iv) Allegro

Sue Bailey (clarinet) | Terry Neeman (cello)
Susan Reid (piano)

HYDE - Canzonetta
ROTA - Intermezzo

Michelle Urquhart (viola) | Kian Woo (piano)

Sonata for Flute and Piano in D Major Op 94
After the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 Prokofiev settled in Paris, but
returned to Russia in 1934. Despite personal tragedies, many of his
most loved works were written after this time. Commissioned by the
Committee on Artists’ Affairs, and written during the dark days of
World War II, this Sonata was premiered in 1943 by the flautist Nicolai
Kharkovsky and pianist Sviatoslav Richter. It is Prokofiev’s only
significant work for flute and is considered one of the most important
twentieth century masterpieces for the instrument. With the
proportions of some of the greatest violin sonatas it is a true duo,
showcasing the agility, stamina, technical and interpretive skills of
both performers. Later Prokofiev made an arrangement of the work for
violin at the request of David Oistrakh. The Sonata is neoclassical in
style, and has many resonances with Prokofiev’s Classical Symphony,
and his first Violin Concerto.

BRAHMS, Johannes (1833 – 1897) ~ Trio in A Minor, Op.114
Brahms came out of retirement to write this trio for clarinet in A,
inspired by the clarinettist Richard Muhlfeld. It is a mature work, rich
and romantic, with dark minor chords and expansive phrases to show
off the velvety tones of both clarinet and cello, written with Brahms'
careful craftsmanship. Some may call his writing overworked, yet the
trio has moments of lightness and simplicity. Its harmonies swing
through plagal cadences and unorthodox keys. The rhythm is also
often ambiguous with frequent syncopations. The A Minor Allegro is
busy and full of evolving musical ideas, the Adagio in D Major
beautifully sustained with long calm interweaving phrases. The dancelike Andantino grazioso movement in A Major breaks into a cheerful
ländler, while the final A Minor Allegro, races though witty changes of
theme and spooky harmonies to a noisy ending.
HYDE, Miriam (1913 – 2005) ~ Canzonetta
Miriam Hyde was born in Adelaide. She was taught piano initially by
her mother and then by William Silver at the Elder Conservatory,
before winning a scholarship to the Royal College of Music in London.
Miriam Hyde composed for piano, voice and orchestra, and wrote
sonatas for clarinet, flute and viola. The Canzonetta was written in
1988. It is a miniature piece, lyrical and folk-like, utilising the richness
and depth of the viola.
ROTA, Nino (1911 – 1979) ~ Intermezzo
Nino Rota was an Italian composer known for his film scores, which
include all the films of Federico Fellini, and Francis Ford Coppola’s The
Godfather. Besides film music Rota composed many other works
including operas, choral and vocal music, orchestral works and
chamber music. Perhaps he had a liking for the viola, as he wrote two
sonatas for viola in addition to this Intermezzo. This one movement
work written in 1945 exhibits Rota’s talents for melody, immediacy and
drama. It opens with a heartfelt theme and undergoes several changes
of mood, with increasing intensity, before returning to the opening
melody and earlier motif, this time more resigned and eventually fading
away.
For information about future concerts visit
www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

presents

A Chamber Music Showcase
at The Goethe-Institut, Sydney
www.goethe.de/sydney

Sunday, 10th July 2016
3pm

