PROGRAM
Franck – Sonata in A Major
(i) Allegretto ben moderato
(ii) Allegro
(iii) Recitativo-Fantasia
(iv) Allegretto poco mosso

Michelle Urquhart (viola) | Keith Mitchell (piano)
Spike – Wombat Dance
Brian Martin (clarinet) | Kristofer Spike (piano)
Spike – Cheerful Traveller
Cathy Fraser (flute) | Kristofer Spike (piano)

INTERVAL
Poulenc – Sextet

(i) Allegro vivace
(ii) Divertissement: Andantino
(iii) Finale: Prestissimo

Richard Tardif (flute) | Adele Haythornthwaite (oboe)
Lindsay Wanstall (clarinet) | Neil O’Donnell (French horn)
Petrina Slaytor (bassoon) | Keith Mitchell (piano)
Various – Four French Songs
(i) Saint-Saëns ~ Une Flûte Invisible
(ii) Gaubert ~ Soir Païen
(iii) Ravel ~ La Flûte Enchantée
(iv) Diémer ~ Sérénade

Allison Rowlands (soprano) | Cathy Wainwright (flute)
Susan Butler (piano)

César FRANCK (1822–1890) – Sonata in A Major
César Franck was a Belgian-French composer, organist and
music teacher of the Romantic era. This sonata written in
1886 for violin and piano is his best known work aside from
his Symphony in D Minor. It was composed for Eugène
Ysaÿe, the famous Belgian violinist as a wedding present. As
a result of its popularity various arrangements have been
made of the sonata, including for flute, cello and even tuba.
The work is cyclic in nature (influenced by the writings of
Franz Liszt) where melodic themes recur throughout the
entire work.
Michelle and Keith enjoy performing and
rehearsing on a regular basis and discovering more of the
sonata repertoire for violin and viola.
Kristofer SPIKE (b. 1959) – Wombat Dance and
Cheerful Traveller
Wombat Dance is dedicated to one of Australia's finest
clarinettists, Deborah de Graff. The piece was written as a
vehicle for technical display, and the rapid tempo of the
opening humorously suggests a very lively and agile wombat.
There is a hint of disco music in the melodic figurations
which are traded between the clarinet and piano. The
peaceful middle section is more reflective, but still
punctuated by some highly virtuosic runs.
Cheerful Traveller was written in 2016 for the 70th
birthday of the composer's friend, Brian Long. The first
section of the piece is high spirited and expresses the joy of
travelling. The slower middle section is about missing loved
ones and is characterised by an intensely sentimental
melody. The ending brings back this melody in a faster
version to suggest the excitement of returning home.

Francis POULENC (1899-1963) – Sextet
This work was composed in 1931/32. Composers and critics of a
conservative bent were prepared not to like it: composer and critic
Florent Schmitt focused on its arbitrariness and vulgarity when he
reviewed its premiere in Le Temps. But André Georges, in Les
Nouvelleslittéraires, heard it through ears steeped in nationalistic
pride: “With Poulenc, all of France comes out of the windows he
opens.” The piano joins a standard wind quintet; which Poulenc
employs in a way that capitalizes on its acerbic potential. But the
work is also anchored in the musical mainstream. In the first
movement, the opening scales sweep upward like a curtain opening
to reveal a busy stage, though the hustle and bustle does subside
for moments of notable sweetness or, following the bassoon’s lead,
haunting melancholy. Poulenc’s neoclassical tendencies are
particularly evident in the Mozartean parody of the middle
movement. The finale begins as “an Offenbachian gallop” (to quote
the historian Wilfred Mellers) and ends, surprisingly, in a coda of
reflective solemnity and a touch of grandeur, with shades of Ravel.
VARIOUS – Four French Songs
Saint-Saëns’ Une Flûte Invisible, is a setting of words by Victor
Hugo, one of the most important French Romantic poets, novelists
and dramatists of the 19th century. The poem was published in
1846 and Saint-Saëns composed this trio in 1885. We will hear
with a lover’s ear the sounds of shepherds and birds as peaceful
and joyous music, but of course it is the song of love our lover finds
the most beguiling. Next is Soir Païen – Grecian Evening – by
Philippe Gaubert. Gaubert was a distinguished flautist, conductor
and composer. The song is set to a poem by Albert Samain and
describes a scene from Greek mythology. The legend is that Diana,
the goddess of the moon and the hunt, fell in love with the
shepherd Endymion. Since Endymion was mortal, Diana asked
Zeus to put him into an eternal slumber so she could always visit
him. La Flûte Enchantée (from Shéhérazade) is set to a poem by
Tristan Klingsor. As a depiction of romantic yearning, this song
reminds us how lovers, though separated, can still form an
immediate connection through music. The flowery sentiments of
Gabriel Marc’s poetry in Diémer’s Sérénade combined with its
picturesque ballad style place it in the heady world of the Parisian
salons. The singer Léonce Valdec shared the dedication of this
Sérénade with Paul Taffanel (the king of French flute playing at that
time) and they performed it many times with Diémer.
Don’t miss our next concert here on Sunday 27th November

www.acms-australia.org
proudly presents

A Chamber Music
Showcase
Sunday 25th September 2016
at the Goethe-Institut, Woollahra
www.goethe.de/sydney

