PROGRAM FOR OCTOBER KIRRIBILLI

Gabriel Faure: Piano Trio opus 120
Allegro ma non Troppo
Andantino
Allegro Vivo
Players: Sue Butler piano, Robyn Godfrey cello, Jenny Allison violin
Faure wrote this trio in 1923 when he was 78 years old and was almost completely deaf. He
th
th
was a central figure in 19 and 20 Century French music

Felix Mendelssohn: String Quartet No. 1 in E Flat major Op. 12
Allegro Non Tardante
Canzonetta
Andante Expressivo
Molto Allegro e Vivace
Players: Daniel Morris violin, Andrew Thornley violin, Natalie Adby viola, Therese Underwood
cello
At the age of 20, in 1829, Mendelssohn enjoyed an exciting year of musicianship: reviving
Bach’s St. Matthew Passion in Berlin, conducting his own first Symphony in London,
performing solo in Beethoven’s Emperor Concerto (also in London) and composing his muchloved Fingal’s Cave Overture in Scotland. At some stage during the year he found time to
compose this String Quartet No. 1 (actually the second of the 6 published Quartets). It was
written for the celebration of the marriage of one of his sister’s close friends.

Clemence Grandval: Trio de Salon
Players: Petrina Slaytor bassoon, Cathy Fraser Flute, John Hughes piano
Born Marie Felicie Clemence de Reisit in 1828, Clemence Grandval studied with Chopin and
Saint-Saens. She composed from an early age but after her marriage sometimes she wrote
under pseudonyms because of her social position. She composed operas, sacred works,
popular songs and instrumental pieces.

Dmitri Shostakovich: String Quartet No. 6 Op. 101.
Allegretto
Moderato con moto
Lento-Allegretto
Players: Sheila Fitzpatrick violin, Jenny Allison violin, Lynn Dalgarno viola, Clara Blazer cello
This quartet was composed in 1956 and was premiered by the Beethoven Quartet.
Shostakovich had been recently re-married and there is a feeling of optimism in his writing.
The sounds have been described as “happy” and “rollicking” with striking harmonies. But
there are shadowy elements throughout also. At he end of each movement the composer
placed his signature in German: DSCH which in musical terms is the notes D, E flat, C and B
natural.

