ACMS
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— CONCERT —
5.00pm Sunday 6th November 2016 (first Sunday in November)
Kirribilli Centre, 16 Fitzroy St, Kirribilli
www.KNCsydney.org
tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
SCHUBERT STRING QUARTET OP. 125, NO. 1
Allegro moderato – Scherzo – Adagio - Allegro
violin Sheila Fitzpatrick violin Regula Scheidegger
viola Eve Salinas cello Jane Smith
duration 20’

BRAHMS Piano Trio in c minor Op 101
Second Movement – Presto non assai
Third Movement - Andante grazioso
violin Susan Mitchell cello Felicia Mitchell piano Susan Butler
duration 10’

— INTERVAL —

- Notes BRAHMS (1833-1897) Piano Trio in c minor Op 101
Brahms himself premiered this work in 1886 in the company of two regular
chamber music partners, Eugen Huber and David Popper, themselves half of
the Budapest quartet. Brahms had written the piece in the summer of that
year so it was very fresh. The work was performed alongside a cello sonata, a
couple of songs and the B flat string sextet. Apparently the Hungarian
audience loved the trio. Brahms was in the habit of choosing a pleasant spot to
spend the summer and write music. In 1886 he chose Hofstetten near Lake
Thun in Switzerland. He pronounced himself to be very happy with his choice,
particularly because ‘there are lots of Biergartens around – to which the
English don’t come! No small matter for my comfort’.
The two movements performed today exhibit the character of his compositions
of this period - an elegant sparseness, a rhythmic complexity and ambiguity,
and a lyricism kept under tight control. As the Hungarian reviewer said ‘much
grace is hidden in the “Presto non assai” and the Andante grazioso tells us of
“secret love” and “old tales”.’
RAVEL (1875-1937) Piano Trio in A minor (first movt - Modéré)
Ravel's creative musical language for piano is given full reign in his sole work
for trio ensemble (piano, violin, and cello) composed in 1914. All four
movements are strikingly innovative - although it is only the first movement
that is being performed this evening. The dominant motif of the movement is

RAVEL Piano Trio in A minor

in 8/8 time and is stated at the outset - thereby establishing that the eight

First movement - Modéré
violin Richard Willgoss cello Jane Smith piano John Hughes

pulses are divided oddly into a rhythmically off-beat 3+2+3 pattern. This

duration 11’

SYDNEY GUITAR SCHOOL ENSEMBLE
Colleen Meehan, Greg Allardice, Claudie Moffatt, Noel Camilleri,
Lois Brown, Giuseppe Zangari
Thomas Robinson - Twenty Waies upon the Bels
Karl Jenkins – Palladio (arr. R Charlton)
El Vito – Trad Spanish Dance (arr. F Ohtsuka)
Natalicio Lima - Tenura

simple motif evolves through lots of tonal impressionism right up until the
dramatic climax - after which the music dies away and ends languidly in C
major.
Twenty waies upon the bels is an old English song, originally written for two
lutes, composed by Thomas Robinson. Robinson (c. 1560- 1610) was an
English renaissance composer and music teacher. He mainly taught and wrote
for lute, cittern, orpharion, bandora, viola, and voices. Some of his most
notable pupils included Princess Anne and Queen Sophie. ‘Twenty waies upon
the bels’ was published in 1603 as part of his second book ‘The Schoole of
Musicke’, which displaced John Alford’s book ‘A Briefe and Easye Instruction’

from 1574, and subsequently Robinson became the most important lute tutor
in England from then on.
Palladio is a composition for string orchestra written in 1995. The work, in
three movements, is in the form of a concerto grosso. It is inspired by the 16th
century Italian architect Andrea Palladio (1508-1580), whose work embodies

The Kirribilli Centre

the Renaissance celebration of harmony and order. Two of Palladio's hallmarks

www.KNCsydney.org

are mathematical harmony and the use of ancient classical architectural
elements. These are reflected in Jenkin s’ approach to composition - with
repeated musical structures; steady musical development; and a call to the
performer for precise and controlled performance. The first movement
(Allegretto), which has been arranged for guitar ensemble by Richard Charlton,
was adapted for the De Beers A DIAMOND IS FOREVER television commercial,

ACMS
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert

and may be familiar to some listeners.
El vito is a traditional folk song and dance music of Andalusia whose origins
can be traced back to the 16th century. Its name refers to the "disease" known
as St. Vitus's dance, for its lively and vivid character. It was created in the
nineteenth century as a dancing song typical of the bolero. It includes steps of
the art of bullfighting and is usually played by women. The typical costume
includes jacket and brimmed hat. The melody of El vito is played in fast 3/8
time and it uses the harmonic minor scale for the ascending motives, and the
Phrygian mode, which is the most characteristic of Andalusian music, for the
descending mode, which generates an harmonic accompaniment based on the
Andalusian cadence. It is also sung with different lyrics, humorous or serious.

concert organiser Tony Tenney
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Centre provide
light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and
charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre.
For information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”)
and click on “Concerts”

Sunday 6th November 2016
5.00pm

