- Notes -

ACMS
— CONCERT —
5pm Sunday 7 August 2016 (first Sunday in August)
Kirribilli Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli, tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
BRAHMS Trio in A minor Op 114
(1) Allegro (2) Adagio
(3) Andante grazioso (4) Allegro
clarinet Lindsay Wanstall cello Caroline Slaytor
piano Murray Brown
35’

YOKOYAMA L’Epice d’Asie
flute Cathy Fraser
cello Caroline Slaytor
bassoon Petrina Slaytor
5’

BRAHMS (1833-1897) Trio for Clarinet, Cello and Piano
in A minor Opus 114
This is the first of four chamber works featuring the clarinet written by
Brahms. Thinking he had written his last work, Brahms was inspired by
the magnificent clarinet playing of Richard Muhlfeld, leading him to write
this Trio in 1891, followed by the Clarinet Quintet, Op 115, and two
Sonatas for Clarinet and Piano, Op 120.
The Allegro opens with a cello solo, establishing a sombre mood that
prevails throughout. Romantic yet introspective motives are interwoven
between all three instruments. The Adagio is a dignified movement with
interaction between clarinet, cello and piano. Andante grazioso is a waltz
style, more playful in mood. Allegro, the final movement, makes full use of
the versatility of all three instruments.
Adapted from: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clarinet_Trio_(Brahms)

Shin-Itchiro YOKOYAMA (b1956) L’Epice d’Asie
Shin-Itchiro Yokoyama is a Japanese cellist and composer who lives in

— INTERVAL —

France. He has written many works for piano and also for a variety of other
instruments, including a solo bassoon work. He studied at Ecole Normale

GUITAR DUOS
(1) Milonga by Jorge Cardoso
(2) Don Julian by Maximo Diego Pujol
(3) Tarde de Luvia con Café by Ianarelli
(4) Palladio by Karl Jenkins
guitars Peter Mony and Colleen Meehan

de Musique de Paris Alfred Cortot.
This work was composed in 2002. It is in ternary form and is being
performed in the original instrumentation.

15’

GUITAR DUOS

FALLA Seven Spanish Popular Songs
(1) El Pano Moruno (2) Seguidilla Muciana (3) Asturiana
(4) Jota (5) Nana (6) Cancion (7) Polo
mezzo soprano Jo Burton piano Murray Brown
25’
-- REFRESHMENTS --

Jorge CARDOSO (b 1949) The Milonga, originally from Argentina and
Uruguay, is a slow, intense dance with a syncopated pulse.
PUJOL (b 1957) Don Julian displays the tango rhythm typical of Argentinian
tango bands.

IANARELLI (b 1970) Tarde de Luvia con Café is modern reflective
impressionistic piece by this Italian composer.
JENKINS (b 1944) Palladio is an orchestral piece, arranged for two guitars
by Gary Spolding.

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

MANUEL de FALLA (1876-1946) Seven Spanish Popular Songs

ACMS

Manuel de Falla was a very fastidious and self-critical composer, thus his

http://www.acms-australia.org/

published works are of a consistently high quality. Falla went to Paris in
1907 where he wrote the Siete Canciones populares Españolas (Seven
Popular Spanish Songs) in 1913. The work was not premiered until the

Chamber Music Concert

spring of 1915 in Madrid, after Falla had been forced to leave Paris and
return home at the start of the First World War. It was the first work of his
maturity as a composer and was followed by the popular ballet The ThreeCornered Hat, as well as the opera La Vida Breve and other works.
Apart from the last song, Polo, the Siete Canciones are melodically identical
to the folk tunes on which they're based. It is the originality and diversity
of the piano accompaniments that gives the group of songs their special
quality; while undeniably Spanish, they are also imbued with Falla's own
unique expressive qualities as a composer.

concert organiser Lindsay Wanstall
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre provide
light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and
charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”)
and click on “Concerts”
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on
“Join Us”, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org, or write to
ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

5pm Sunday 7 August 2016

