ACMS
www.acms-australia.org/concerts/
 --  Concert  -- 
5pm Sunday 4th December 2016 
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.KNCsydney.org     tel: 9922 4428
 --  PROGRAM  -- 
BACH Sonata in E minor BWV 1034
 (1) Adagio ma non tanto (2) Allegro (3) Andante (4) Allegro
flute Richard Tardif  cello Rachel Scott
Rachel Scott, who is a well-known Sydney cellist and often tutors for the ACMS, is performing tonight as a special birthday present for her dear friend Richard.
ARENSKY Piano Trio in D minor Op 32
(1) Allegro moderato  (3) Elegia (Adagio)
violin Pam Hepworth cello Jane Smith
piano Ludwig Sugiri
 --  Interval  -- 
CHRISTMAS MUSIC 
                    PRAETORIUS Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland
                    Traditional (arr. Palmer) Quem Pastores
                        CHESNOKOV Salvation is Created
                              HOLST Christmas Day
                sopranos Karen Butler, Susan Butler, Yeesum Lo
             altos Pat Fernandez, Eveline Schultheiss, Patsy Short
                      tenors Ian Butler, Rosemary Rayfuse
                               bass Hugh Wilson
                               piano Patsy Short
                                       


- Notes -
BACH (1685-1750) Sonata in E minor, BWV 1034
Johann Sebastian Bach wrote the E minor sonata for the wooden transverse flute, which in the early eighteenth century began to replace the recorder as the dominant wind instrument. The Sonata is written with a basso continuo accompaniment in place of an obbligato keyboard part. Typically, the basso continuo is performed by a harpsichord and another instrument capable of sustaining the bass line, in most cases a string instrument such as a cello or viola da gamba. For today's performance the piece has been arranged simply for flute and cello
Bach composed the sonata in Leipzig, where he spent the last twenty-seven years of his life as cantor of Saint Thomas's Church. Flowing phrases in the flute part over a gently moving bass pervade the first and third movements. The contrapuntal interplay between the flute and cello, evident in the virtuosic second and fourth movements, is a hallmark of Bach's style during his latter years.
ARENSKY (1861-1906) Piano Trio no.1 Op. 32 in D minor 
Composed in 1894 at the age of 33, Piano Trio no. 1 is Anton Stepanovich Arensky's best-known extended work. The presence of Mendelssohn (and especially of that composer's own D minor piano trio) is clearly apparent. The trio is one of Arensky's most successful large-scale pieces, displaying his melodic facility and fluent compositional technique. It was composed in memory of the cellist Davïdov, and its commemorative purpose is particularly apparent in the third movement. Such an elegiac vein was characteristic of Arensky; it is significant that, despite being Rimsky-Korsakov's pupil, he seems to have responded far more to the influence of Tchaikovsky.
In the same year the piano trio was written, Balakirev recommended Arensky as his successor to the directorship of the imperial chapel in St Petersburg, and a year later he moved to that city, resigning from his professorship at the Moscow Conservatory.
The first movement of piano trio no.1 'Allegro moderato' exudes remarkable power and energy. Even the lyrical passages are accompanied by a pulsating accompanying figure in the piano, resulting in a feeling of constant motion and energy.
The third movement is tender, reflective "Elegia" in adagio tempo with the muted cello introducing the melancholy theme. Even the passages which evoke a happier mood seem to be only memories.
Sources: Grove Dictionary & allmusic.com [HYPERLINK: http://allmusic.com]
PRAETORIUS (1571 - 1621) Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland
The Lutheran chorale Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland was written in 1524 to words by Martin Luther, based on Veni redemptor gentium by Ambrose. The hymn has been used on the first Sunday in Advent for centuries and the chorale was used by many Lutheran composers. This setting is No 52 in Praetorius' collection Musae Sionae and is for four voices.
Nun komm der Heiden Heiland,

Now come, Saviour of the heathen,
der Jungfrauen Kind erkannt,

recognized as the Virgin's Child,
daß sich wunder alle Welt,

so that the world marvels
Gott solch Geburt ihm bestellt.

that God ordained such a birth for Him.
Traditional (arr. Palmer) Quem Pastores
This song is taken from the 14th century Hoenfurth Manuscript. The tune is a 16th century German melody from Breslau. The English words are by Imogen Holst.
Quem pastores laudavere,

Shepherds left their flocks astraying
quibus angeli dixere,

God's command with joy obeying,
absit vobis jam timere,

When they heard the angel saying
natus est rex gloriæ.

"Christ is born in Bethlehem".



Ad quem magi ambulabant

Wise men came from far and saw Him;
aurum, thus, myrrham portabant,

Knelt in homage to adore Him;
immolabant hæc sincere

Precious gifts they laid before Him:
nato regi gloriæ.

Gold and frankincense and myrrh.



Christo regi, Deo nato,

Let us now in every nation
Per Mariam nobis dato,

Sing his praise with exultation.
Merito resonet vere

All the world shall find salvation
Laus, honor et gloria.

In the birth of Mary's Son.
CHESNOKOV (1877 - 1944) Salvation is Created
This is probably the best-known piece by the composer, choirmaster and teacher Pavel Chesnokov. He taught choral conducting at the Moscow Conservatory, was choirmaster at the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour and wrote a large number of sacred choral works in the liturgical style. After the Russian Revolution he turned to secular works and conducted secular choirs.
HOLST (1874  -  1934) Christmas Day
Gustav Holst had a lifelong interest in traditional music and folksong and often used it in his own works. This "Choral fantasy on old carols" combines several well-known carols into a single piece.

concert organiser: Susan Butler
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre provide
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries) and
charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org 
and click on "Concerts"
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society.  
         If interested, go to the website and click on "Join Us", 
              or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org,  
                    or write to ACMS Membership Secretary,
                        PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093
                                       

Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
                               www.KNCsydney.org
                                     ACMS 
                            www.acms-australia.org/
                             Chamber Music Concert
                           Sunday 4th December 2016
                                      5pm
                        Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
                               www.KNCsydney.org
                                     ACMS 
                            www.acms-australia.org/
                             Chamber Music Concert
                           Sunday 4th December 2016
                                      5pm

















