Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— CONCERT PROGRAM 2 JULY 2017 —
Bedřich SMETANA: Piano Trio - Opus 15
(2) Allegro ma non agitato
(3) Finale Presto
Violin: Richard Willgoss
Cello: Jane Smith
Piano: John Hughes

TWO CLARINET DUETS
Aurelio MAGNANI: Sonata in F major
Mike CURTIS: Duo Suite on Mexican Themes
Clarinet: Leanne Walton
Clarinet: Brian Martin
— INTERVAL OF TEN MINUTES —

Léon BOELLMANN: Piano Quartet in F minor - Op.10

— Programme Notes —
Bedřich Smetana (2 March 1824 – 12 May 1884) – Piano Trio - Opus 15
The event that prompted Czech composer Smetana to write his sole piano trio was the death of
his eldest daughter from scarlet fever at the age of four. Smetana annotated his trio with the
words ‘written in memory of my first child Bedriska, who enchanted us with her extraordinary
musical talent, and yet was snatched away from us by death’. Composed in 1855, this was the
first in a lengthy succession of overtly elegiac piano trios from Slavic composers.
There are three movements, but we will be playing the second and third movements only. The
second movement is a Scherzo which creates the illusion of a small child happily running about.
This motif is interrupted twice by two interludes – the first tender and delicate, the second
sombre and serious, surely evoking contrasting memories in the mind of the composer.
The third and final movement contains the heart and soul of the trio. It opens with yet another
running and skipping theme, soon to be contrasted with the great elegiac theme – first heard on
the cello. Later in the movement, this glorious theme is recast as a sombre funeral march before
being brilliantly restored to lift the mood from despair to one of hope and even exultation.
Enjoy!
Aurelio Magnani (1856 – 1921) & Mike Curtis (contemporary)
To decide on clarinet duets to perform, we put a priority on ones that were fun for us and, we
hoped, interesting to the audience. Also we wanted some variety in styles.
We picked a duet by Magnani, an Italian clarinettist and teacher, for its tuneful treatment in the
classical idiom.
In contrast, Mike Curtis is a contemporary US composer who draws on musical styles from
diverse cultures. According to his webpage, after decades of performing on the bassoon and
other instruments, playing both classical, klezmer and jazz, he started composing at age 40.
Léon Boëllmann (25 September 1862 – 11 October 1897) – Piano Quartet - Opus 10

(1) Allegro un poco moderato
(2) Scherzo (Presto)
(3) Andante
(4) Finale Allegro

Léon Boëllmann was a French composer of Alsatian origin. His professional life spanned 16
years during which he composed about 160 pieces of many genres. He is perhaps best known for
his Organ music, notably "Suite Gothique" (1895). The Piano Quartet was written around 1890
and won the Societe des Compositeurs (now known as SACEM (Society of Authors, Composers
and Publishers of Music)) prize.

Violin: Debbie Gray
Viola: John Keller
Cello: Sharon Maennl
Piano: Neil Semmler

Stylistically Boëllmann's works are probably closest to Cesar Franck. He was an accomplished
performer undertaking concert tours in addition to composing, teaching and being
concertmaster-organist.

— LIGHT REFRESHMENTS —

I was researching Piano (with Strings) Quartet works last year and stumbled upon a Youtube
recording of this quartet by Boëllmann. Only the first movement was available, but I was
captivated by the haunting sound of the opening where the piano plays a melancholy tune
against gently pulsing string harmonies. I was equally taken by the reprise of this melody
towards the end of the movement where the viola (and violin) play it above similar pulsing
harmonies provided in the piano.

It was a delight to find a score for the full work available on the IMSLP website. But it wasn't
until Fish Records was able to obtain a Compact Disk recording of this Quartet (and other
Boëllmann chamber works) that I discovered two things:
a) how excellent this quartet is in entirety, and
b) what a good composer Boëllmann was!
Other chamber works by him are available on IMSLP and I hope ACMS members take the
opportunity to explore this fine composer.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%C3%A9on_Bo%C3%ABllmann
http://www.musimem.com/boellmann.htm (Google Translated)
https://societe.sacem.fr/en

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli – 02 9922 4428

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
5pm Sunday 2nd July 2017

Concert Organiser Neil Semmler
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Centre provide
light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and
charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
For information on future concerts, go to
www.acms-australia.org
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”)
and click on “Concerts”
All chamber music players are welcome to join the Amateur Chamber Music Society.
If interested, click “Join Us” on the website, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org,
or write to ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

