ACMS
www.acms-australia.org/concerts/
 --  Concert  -- 
5pm Sunday 5[th] March 2017
Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.KNCsydney.org     tel: 9922 4428
 --  PROGRAM  -- 
HANDEL Sonata in F major Op 2 no 3 for violin, viola and piano
 (1) Lento (2) Allegro (3) Adagio (4) Allegro
violin Beverley Gibbs  viola Ian Colley 
 piano Marjorie Hystek
HAYDN Quartet Op 64 No 5 in D major 
                    (1) Allegro Moderato (2) Adagio cantabile
                      (3) Minuet and trio (4) Finale Vivace
                     violins Jenny Allison and Hanako Ward
                      viola Eve Salinas cello Clara Blazer
 --  Interval  -- 
                     KATZ  -  CHERNIN   Three Short Trios
(1) Revolving Doors (2) Melancholic Piece (3) Cocktail Rag
Flute Cathy Wainwright  Clarinet Lindsay Wanstall 
Bassoon Petrina Slaytor 
                    DVORAK Quartet Op 51 No 10 in Eb major
  (1) Allegro ma non troppo  (2) Dumka Elegia
                    violins Ian Colley and Marjorie Hystek
                    viola Paul Whitbread  cello Hugh Wilson
 --  REFRESHMENTS  -- 

- Notes -
HANDEL (1685-1759) Sonata in F major, Op 2 No 3 for violin, viola and piano              
George Frideric Handel was a contemporary of J.S Bach both born 1685 in Germany and whose lives never crossed.   Bach continued to live and work in Germany while Handel moved towards the operatic schools of Italy.  Handel's music was influenced by an opera company already established in Hamburg.  However, it is through the Oratorio and large instrumental works that Handel is best known.  By 1713 Handel, now aged 28, had permanently established himself in England, where he became court musician to King George I.  Here, he composed many smaller instrumental works as well as his huge Oratorios and Operas.  He played an excellent organ, violin, harpsichord, and was a singer of note.  Hence the numerous short and enjoyable chamber works that remain for us to enjoy.  Handel died in 1759 Just a few years before Australia was discovered.  No Doubt the earlier settlers of this country who had the means to enable the transportation of a harpsichord would have played much of the music of Bach and Handel.

Haydn (1732-1809) string quartet Op 64 No 5 in D major
This quartet belongs to a set of six written in 1790, the last year of Haydn's employment at the court of Esterhazy. The six are sometimes called the "Tost Quartets" as Haydn dedicated them to Johann Tost, a Hungarian violinist who helped Haydn find a publisher for his works. It is thought that "The Lark" is so named because of the singing melody introduced by the first violin, but the quartet also has another name: "The Hornpipe".  The last movement is energetic and perpetually moving, which could explain the latter name. The second movement is basically an aria for the first violin and the third movement is a typical minuet with a contrasting minor-key trio. 
Katz-Chernin(1957 - ) Three short Trios
Elena Katz-Chernin was born in Tashkent in Uzbekistan in 1957 and came to Australia in 1975.  She has written 6 operas, 11 orchestral works and many other instrumental works. 
These trios were written for solo piano in 2003, but have since been arranged by Katz-Chernin for bassoon and piano, violin and piano and other trios including for viola da gamba, violin and theorbo. This version was arranged by Katz-Chernin, possibly for the Sirius Ensemble.   The third trio has been described as a `musical swizzle stick' and is dedicated to the winemaking Lehmann family from the Barossa Valley.  


DVORAK (1841 - 1904) Op 51 No 10 in Eb  
Antonin Dvorak was born 1841 in Czechoslovakia.  The great political upheaval throughout Europe during Dvorak's lifetime brought out a great feeling of nationalism within the art music and literary world.  Along with Janacek and Smetana, Dvorak's contribution to this Nationalism was by far the most extensive.  He is regarded as one of the most prolific composers of his time and has written for every instrument; solo, orchestral and voice.  An amazing body of work. In 1892 he moved to America, but continued to compose in his Nationalistic style until his death in Prague in 1904.


concert organiser: Marjorie Hystek
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre provide
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries) and
charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org 
and click on "Concerts"
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society.  
         If interested, go to the website and click on "Join Us", 
              or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org,  
                    or write to ACMS Membership Secretary,
                        PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093


















Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
                               www.KNCsydney.org
                                     ACMS 
                            www.acms-australia.org/
                             Chamber Music Concert
                             Sunday 5th March 2017
                                      5pm
                        Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
                               www.KNCsydney.org
                                     ACMS 
                            www.acms-australia.org/
                             Chamber Music Concert
                             Sunday 5th March 2017
                                      5pm

















