Johann Sebastian Bach (1685 – 1750) Cantata BWV 208 – Sheep May Safely Graze

Amateur Chamber Music Society
www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

SEPTEMBER SUNSET CONCERT
— PROGRAM —
J.S. BACH Sheep May Safely Graze
Lien Duckett (Flute), Ashleigh O’Young (Clarinet), David Pow (Piano)
2’

BEETHOVEN Sonata for Piano and Violin in E-flat major No 3 Op 12
George Carrard, Murray Brown
21’

JOHAN HELMICH ROMAN Four Pieces from The Drottningholm Music
Allegro con spirito – Allegretto – Poco Allegro – Allegro

THE GIPSY KINGS Inspiration
Guitar Ensemble
Colleen Meehan, Greg Allardice, Sharyne Waddell, Claudie Moffatt, Noel Camilleri, Giuseppe
Zangari

15’
— 10 MINUTE INTERVAL —

PRAETORIUS Ballet and Volta from the Terpsichore
SILVESTRI Forrest Gump
Guitar Ensemble
Noel Camilleri, Colette Yee, Claudie Moffatt, Michael Simmons, Bridget McVicar, Christine Wild,
Giuseppe Zangari
6’

This Cantata is a secular choral work and is described as Bach’s Hunting Cantata – a
reference to its opening text: "The lively hunt is all my heart's desire." Its most familiar
aria is the ninth movement, Schafe können sicher weiden. Bach composed this music
for the birthday of Duke Christian of Saxe-Weissenfels in 1713. This work is also
recognised as the birthday cantata.
Ludwig van Beethoven (1770 – 1827) Sonata for Piano & Violin E-flat Major No 3 Op 12

Sonata Op 12 No 3, is a work of genius. The first movement keeps both instruments
moving. The second movement, at times reminiscent of an operatic aria, starts with a
serene melody that evolves slowly. The violin sings in long lines over a murmuring
accompaniment, then trades roles with the piano. The cheerful finale is a rondo on a
cheeky theme. Unexpectedly, the middle section falls into the minor mode and hints
at some brief, mild conflict between the instruments. This is soon swept away by
another surprise, a fugal treatment of the main theme that leads straight into a brief,
high-spirited coda.
Johan Helmich Roman (1694 – 1758) Four pieces from The Drottningholm Music

The Drottningholm Music (Swedish: Drottningholmsmusiken) is the popular name of
the music that was composed by Johan Helmich Roman and first performed at
Drottningholm Palace at Lovön, near Stockholm in 1744 at the wedding of Crown
Prince Adolf Frederick and Princess Louisa Ulrika of Prussia. The suite consists of thirty
three movements and for this performance we will hear four movements. The
movements are diverse in character; there is music both for ceremonious entries and
for dance, for example minuets. The wedding was celebrated in three days, under
which the royal orchestra, was directed by Roman.
The Gipsy Kings – Inspiration (arr. R. Charlton)

The lively song Inspiration is from the third album of French Rumba Catalana band
Gipsy Kings. It famously appeared in the season five episode of Miami Vice, "World Of
Trouble", in 1988.

BACH Prelude from Suite No. 1 in G Major
David Pow (Bassoon)
2’

MOZART Divertimento in Bb for Flute, Clarinet and Bassoon, K439b
Sarah Cachia (Flute), Alex Behrman (Clarinet), David Pow (Bassoon)
17’

Richard Charlton Viva Jujuy
Guitar Ensemble
Marcus Chun, Charles Duckett, Ethan Yee, Joe Kerruish, Dennis van Rooyen

5’

— REFRESHMENTS —

Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756 – 1791) Divertimento in Bb for Oboe, Clarinet and
Bassoon, K 439b (c. 1781-1785)

Divertimento in Bb is from a manuscript collection of 25 pieces composed in Vienna
circ. 1781. The movements may have been written as basset-horn trios, however the
first published arrangements specified two clarinets and bassoon; or two clarinets,
two horns and bassoon; or two basset-horns and bassoon. In an early arrangement, it
was scored for Oboe, Clarinet and Bassoon and in this ensemble today, the flute
substitutes the Oboe.

Michael Praetorius (1571 – 1621) Ballet and Volta from the Terpsichore

Ballet and Volta are Dances from the Terpsichore by German organist, composer,
theorist and publisher, Michael Praetorius. They were published in Terpischore, a
collection of 312 instrumental dances in 4, 5 and 6 parts, that was his sole surviving
secular work and most popular of the Renaissance period. Praetorius stated it to be a
collection written for French dancers who were very good ‘Geigers’ (lutenists).
Alan Silvestri (b. 1950) Theme from Forrest Gump

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

The theme from the movie Forrest Gump (1994) complemented the film portraying a
simple man doing extraordinary things with a homespun philosophy of such quotes as
- "Life is just like a box of chocolates - you never know what you're gonna get."
Johann Sebastian Bach (1685 – 1750) Prelude from Suite No. 1 in G Major for
Unaccompanied Cello, BWV 1007

Bach’s Six Suites for Unaccompanied Cello circ. 1720, written when the composer was
serving as Kapellmeister at the court of Anhalt-Cöthen. The Prelude of the Suite No. 1
in G Major, mainly consisting of arpeggiated chords, moves along a steady pulse of
sixteenth-notes, and it is the responsibility of the performer to breathe musical life–
manipulation of tempo, contrasts of dynamics within phrases, the gradual building to
a great climax–into these otherwise bare sequences of steady notes.
Richard Charlton (b. 1955) Viva Jujuy

Viva Jujuy is an adaptation and arrangement of traditional South American melodies
by Australian guitarist Richard Charlton. The title also shares the same name of a love
song by Mercedes Sosa and Charlton uses this as a basis of this work for guitar
ensemble.
_______________
Concert organiser Su-Lee Oei
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Centre provide
light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and
charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”) and click on “Concerts”
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on “Join Us”, or
email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org, or write to ACMS Membership Secretary, PO
Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

Chamber Music Concert
5pm
Sunday 3 September 2017

