Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— CONCERT —

CLARINET FIESTA
HOROVITZ Sonatina for clarinet and piano 1981
clarinet Lindsay Wanstall

piano John Hughes

duration 16’

MILHAUD Suite for Violin, clarinet and piano Op157b
violin Jenny Allison clarinet Yeesum Lo piano Sue Butler
duration 15’

— INTERVAL —

BRAHMS Clarinet Trio No. 5, Op 114
(1) Allegro

(2) Adagio (3) Andantino grazioso
(4) Allegro
clarinet Niki Frampton cello Hilary Day piano Keith Mitchell
duration 24’

J S BACH Prelude in D minor arr S Davies
PAUL SIMON Sound of Silence arr Voces8
RAMIN DJAWADI Games of Thrones
Sydney Clarinet Choir
Doug Farrington, Niki Frampton, Peter Scaysbrook,
David Shannon, Kate Sweeny, Lindsay Wanstall
— REFRESHMENTS —
concert organiser Tony Tenney
Entry donation $15 ($10 concession/seniors)

- Notes JOSEPH HOROVITZ (1926 - ) Sonatina for Clarinet and Piano
The composer Joseph Horovitz was born in Vienna and settled in England in 1938.
He became professor of composition at Royal College of Music from 1961.
His Sonatina for Clarinet and Piano is light-hearted and follows the traditional
pattern of three-movement division. The first, in classical sonata form, concentrates
on the middle register of the clarinet, mainly lyrical against a rippling piano
background. The second movement is an A-B-A song structure employing some of
the lowest notes of the clarinet in a long cantilena over a slow chordal piano
accompaniment. And the finale is a kind of rondo alternating two themes in equal
proportions, exploiting the upper register of the clarinet.
The harmonic idiom of the whole work is tonal, and, is melodically and rhythmically
much influenced by jazz and other popular music. It calls for equal virtuosity from
both players. The Sonatina was composed between January and April 1981 and
premiered at Wigmore Hall, London on May 12, 1981.
DARIUS MILHAUD (1892 – 1974) Suite for Violin, clarinet and piano Op157
Milhaud was a French composer born in Marseille to a Jewish family. He studied at
the Sorbonne, first violin and then composition. In his early thirties he worked as a
Secretary to the French Ambassador to Brazil. Two years in Brazil gave him a lot of
Latin music to work with. He followed this up with a trip to the U.S. in 1922 where
he visited Harlem and heard jazz for the first time. In 1940 he emigrated with his
family to the U.S. and became a teacher, with Dave Brubeck as one of his most
noted students. He was a prolific composer and a huge influence on modernist
music.
This suite incorporates the Latin, jazz and folk elements that abound in Milhaud’s
writing. There are formal elements such as canons and call and response,
melodramatic contrasts of mood, and dance tunes that are simply to be enjoyed.
JOHANNES BRAHMS (1833-91) Clarinet Trio in A minor Op114 (1891)
The Clarinet Trio Opus 114 is the first of four chamber works inspired by the
principal clarinetist of the Meiningen Court Orchestra, Richard Mühlfeld. Brahms
had been aware of Mühlfeld's artistry since the 1880s, for the Meiningen Orchestra
had played his Second Piano Concerto and premiered his Fourth Symphony.
The Trio is in a typical four movement form. The work shows many of the usual
characteristics of Brahms' chamber music ie an equality of parts and quite complex
contrapuntal writing. Maybe somewhat surprisingly, it is the 'cello which often takes
the melodic 'lead' with the clarinet following, sometimes in a more subordinate role.
In the opening Allegro, the usual sonata form grows out of a simple rising arpeggio
and descending scale, introduced by the 'cello. This theme undergoes many
modifications during the movement, especially fragmentation where it is reduced to
phrases of two and three notes.
The second-movement, marked Adagio, is based on two contrasting melodic ideas,
which reoccur in ever increasing complexity and with interesting interplay of the

clarinet and 'cello in varying registers.
The third movement is marked Andantino grazioso, and is in a Ternary Form similar
to the Minuet (or Scherzo) and Trio form which often makes up the third movement
in Chamber Music. The first section has been called a 'lovely and nostalgic Viennese
waltz', while the trio section is like an Austrian Ländler, the clarinet part introducing
a theme likened to yodelling! This theme is passed around the three instruments
with ever increasing complexity until returning to the opening 'Waltz'.
The short rondo finale (Allegro) contains many attributes of gypsy inspired idioms
often found in Brahms' final movements (the Piano Quintet and Piano Quartet No 1
being just two of many examples), with its mixture of changing time signatures and
three-against-four rhythms and colourful minor-mode harmonies. It forms an
exciting ending to the work.

Johannes Sebastian Bach, Prelude in D minor, arranged for clarinet
choir by S Davies
Transcribed from Book I of the Well-Tempered Klavier, Prelude no. 4 in C# minor,
this arrangement features five fugal voices spread across Bb clarinets, bass clarinet
and contra-bass clarinet. Such a vast register range results in a rich, dreamy,
organ-like production of this tranquil work.

Paul Simon, Sound of Silence, arranged by Voces8
Written by Paul Simon in 1964, Sound of Silence was released on the initially
unsuccessful album Wednesday Morning 3am. The song eventually found an
audience among college students returning from spring break in 1965 and quickly
gained popularity. Art Garfunkel commented that the song alluded to ‘inability of
people to communicated with each other … especially emotionally.’ In recognition of
the song’s cultural, historical and aesthetic importance, Sound of Silence was added
to the US National Recording Library of Congress in 2012. This arrangement for
clarinet choir was commissioned by choir member, David Shannon, who was
inspired by a performance of the song by an a cappella choir. The emotional
separation referred by Art Garfunkel is represented by each voice following a distinct
rhythmic journey. As the voices ebb and flow the timbral qualities of the clarinet
bring the beauty of the song into relief

Ramin Djawadi, Games of Thrones
The stirring theme music for the enormously popular television series Game of
Thrones was composed for string orchestra and percussion. The lower voices of the
clarinet choir are well suited to replicate the driving cello ostinato and the military
percussive beat of the original. As the work progresses the clarino voices imbue the
folkloric melody with a haunting quality.
The Sydney Community Clarinet Choir was founded by Peter Scaysbook and Deborah de
Graaff to provide experienced players with the opportunity to play chamber music. The members
come from diverse backgrounds but have a common interest in the love of music and in the many
tonal colours and abilities of the clarinet. Our repertoire encompasses a wide selection of genres
and styles exactly showcasing those abilities. For more information contact us on
ksweeny@bigpond.net.au.

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
5pm Sunday 04 November 2018

