— Programme Notes —

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— CONCERT PROGRAM 08 APRIL 2018 —
César Franck: Sonata in A
(1) Allegretto ben moderato
(2) Allegro
(3) Ben moderato: Recitativo-Fantasia
(4) Allegretto poco mosso
Cello: Sharon Maennl
Piano: Neil Semmler
— INTERVAL OF TEN MINUTES —

Gabriel Fauré: Five Songs
(1) Mandoline
(2) Les berceaux
(3) Nell
(4) Après un rêve
(5) Fleur jetée
Voice: Christine Middleton
Piano: Jane Smith

Darius Milhaud: Suite for Piano, Violin & Clarinet op 157b
(1) Ouverture
(2) Divertissement
(3) Jeu
(4) Introduction et Final
Violin: Angela Li
Clarinet: Steven Parkinson
Piano: Glenn Waworuntu

A Very 'French?' Surprise
Kirribilli Sunset Concert 08 April 2018 Performers
— LIGHT REFRESHMENTS —

César Franck (1822 – 1890) – Sonata in A - Opus NA
The Violin Sonata in A was written in 1886, as a wedding present for the violinist Eugene Ysaÿe. After
a performance in Paris in 1887, cellist Jules Dysart begged Franck permission to arrange the violin part
for cello. Delsart generally limited himself to transposing the violin part to the lower register, except for
in only a few passages where he adapted the music to the technical requirements of the cello.
The work is cyclic, themes from one movement reappear transformed in the following movements.
1. Allegro ben Moderato
This gentle and sweetly reflective theme, introduced by the cello after a short introduction by the piano,
is the thematic core of the entire work.
2. Allegro
3. Ben moderato: Recitativo-Fantasia
This is improvisatory, free in expression and structure.
4. Allegretto poco mosso
The main melody is heard in canonic imitation between the instruments, and recurs in a rondo-like
manner to a triumphant conclusion.

Gabriel Fauré (1845 – 1924) – Five Songs
French composer, organist, pianist, teacher. He was regarded as the leading composer of his day. His
many songs are an important part of his legacy. His music has been described as linking the end of
romanticism with the modernism of the early twentieth century.
1. Mandoline (Mandolin) by Paul Verlaine
2. Les berceaux (The cradles) by Sully Prudhomme
3. Nell (Nell) by Leconte de Lisle
4. Après un rêve (After a dream) by Romain Bussine
5. Fleur jetée (Discarded flower) by Armand Silvestre

Darius Milhaud (1892– 1974) – Suite for Piano, Violin and Clarinet op 157b
In the 1920s, Darius Milhaud was hailed by the press for rewriting the rules of art music to keep pace
with the times, rejecting the sumptuous orchestral textures of Debussy for a leaner and cooler aesthetic.
Born in Marseilles, Milhaud studied composition at the Paris Conservatoire under Charles Marie Widor
while at the same time immersing himself in the Paris cultural scene. He composed for just about every
imaginable combination of Western instruments and his sometimes transgressive attitudes toward
musical tradition and stylistic boundaries produce works in which feigned Baroque elegance might be
juxtaposed with crass jazz send-ups.
In 1936, Milhaud supplied the incidental music for the premiere of Jean Anouilh’s play Le voyageur
sans bagage (The Traveler without Baggage). The satirical play tells the story of an amnesiac World
War I veteran who comes to learn that he used to be a particularly cruel member of a dysfunctional
family and decides to switch identities and start fresh.

After the success of the play, Milhaud made a chamber suite for clarinet, violin, and piano out of four
of his incidental numbers, which he published as his Opus 157b. A prime example of his composition
style, the baroque inspired suite begins with a brisk and sunny Ouverture. This is followed by a
Divertissement (“amusement”) which utilises intricate and playful imitative textures, as well as
Milhaud’s signature polytonal techniques where the clarinet and violin mirror one another, before
segueing into an evocative, wistful melody. True to its title, the third movement (Jeu) is playful and
light, while the weighty finale (Introduction et Final) reflects both the psychological drama of the play’s
climax and its happy resolution. The lucidity and regularity of this last section, of course, is
occasionally thrown slightly off kilter with odd harmonic swerves and polytonal writing for which
Milhaud is famous, finally culminating in a kind of jazzy cowboy tune that brings the movement and
the suite to a close.
(Heilman, 2012)

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli – 02 9922 4428

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
5pm Sunday 08 April 2018Programme of
French Composers

Concert Organiser Neil Semmler
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Centre provide
light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and
charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
For information on future concerts, go to
www.acms-australia.org
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”)
and click on “Concerts”
All chamber music players are welcome to join the Amateur Chamber Music Society.
If interested, click “Join Us” on the website, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org, or
write to ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

