KALLIWODA (1801–1866) Heimatlied Op 17
Johan Baptist Wenzel Kalliwoda was born in Prague and started studying violin and composition at the Prague Conservatory at the age of 10, and made his debut as a violinist at the age of 14.  Upon completion of his studies he became a member of the Prague Opera Orchestra.  Kalliwoda was a highly prolific composer, and was held in high regard during his lifetime by such eminent contemporaries as Robert Schumann.  In all, his works number in the hundreds, of which there are about 250 works or sets of works with opus numbers.  
Heimatlied (Homeland Song), Op 117 was published in 1857 in a series of numerous German songs for voice clarinet and piano, “as sung by Mrs Toulmin, Miss Masson and Mrs Shaw accompanied by Mr Lazarus.” Henry Lazarus (1815-1895) was one of England's prominent clarinettists during the 19th century. 
SCHUBERT (1797-1828) Romanze from Die Verschworenen
Schubert’s Die Verschworenen (The Conspirators), also known as Der Häusliche Krieg (The Domestic War - D 787) is a one-act singspiel.  Schubert had little success with opera and theatrical productions.  However with ‘The Conspirators’ — his sixth and final effort in Singspiel — he found some posthumous success.  Written in 1823, it was only performed privately during his lifetime, but the public staging in 1861 was well-received and the work became popular.  
Modelled on Aristophanes’ Lysistrata, Schubert’s libretto, written by Ignaz Franz Castelli, presents a tale of domestic discord and sparring spouses.  The original play is a comic account of one woman’s mission to end The Peloponnesian War.  The Romance is sung by one of the women enlisted in the plan, Helene, who is miserable and missing her husband.  
WALKER (1947 - ) The Great Trees (ii and iv)
Dr Gwyneth Walker, a graduate of Brown University and the Hartt School of Music in the USA, holds a Doctor of Musical Arts degree in Music Composition.  A former faculty member of the Oberlin College Conservatory, she resigned from academic employment in 1982 in order to pursue a career as a full-time composer.  Walker's catalogue includes over 350 commissioned works for orchestra, chamber ensembles, chorus, and solo voice.  
The Great Trees written in 2009 is a five movement work for SATB Chorus, Clarinet and Piano.  The movements are musical settings of the poetry of Wendell Berry (1934 -).  The poetry and music focus on the beauty and spirituality of nature – trees, birds, still water – “one household, high and low.”  Movements #2 (The Silence ) and #4 (The Steps of the City) are for clarinet, voice and piano only.  
Words to Songs
SCHUBERT/Castelli
Romanze from Die Verschworenen
Romance from The Conspirators
Ich schleiche bang und still herum,
Das Herz pocht mir so schwer,
Das Le-ben däucht mich öd' und stumm,
Und Flur und Burg so leer.
I creep around, anxious and still,
my heart beats so hard,
life seems dull and silent to me,
and castle and meadow so empty.

Und je-de Freu-de spricht mir Hohn, 
Und je-der Ton ist Kla-ge-ton, Ja Kla-ge-ton,
Ist der Ge-lieb-te fern,
Trübt sich der Au-ges-Stern.

Every joy is a mockery to me,
and every sound is a sound of mourning. 
My beloved is away,
the star of my eye dwindles.
Ach! was die Lie-be ein-mal band,
Soll nie sich tren-nen mehr;
Was suchst du in dem frem-den Land, 
Und weit dort ü-ber'm Meer?
Oh, once love is bonded,
Never let it be separated.
What do you seek in that foreign country, 
Far across the sea?
Wenn dort auch bunt'-re Blu-men blüh'n,
Kein Herz wird heis-ser für dich glüh'n,
Ja kei-nes!
O bleib' nicht län-ger fern,
Du mei-nes Le-bens Stern!
Even if more colourful flowers bloom there, 
No heart burns more passionately for you, 
Oh stay away no longer,
You, star of my life!

KALLIWODA/anonymous
Heimatlied
Homeland Song
Treues, stilles Friedenstal, 
heimisch sind mir Deine Hütten;
Ihren Reichtum all zu mal,
mag vor dir die Welt ausschütten,
Treues, stilles Friedenstal,
gegen Schätze ohne Zahl
Tausch' ich nicht mein liebes Tal!
Faithful, quiet, peaceful valley, 
homely are your cottages;
even if all the world’s riches 
were offered to me,
faithful, quiet, peaceful valley, 
endless treasures I would not trade 
for my beloved valley!

Heiter steig'ich früh hinauf, 
rings umher zu schaun vom Hügel,
und das Aug' in freiem Lauf
schweifet fröhlich ohne Zügel,
Und erlabt sich weit und breit,
an der Landschaft Herrlichkeit!

Early morning, I cheerfully climb the hill, 
to view the scenery from the top,
and my eye can freely gaze -
wandering joyfully without limits,
and relishes from near or far, 
the landscape’s magnificence!

Manches schönen Tales Grün
reizt und fesselt dann meine Auge,
Der Bewohner emsig Müh'n
schmückt es, daß ich Lust dran sauge;
Zögerst Du dahin? Ach nein!
Heimat kann nur eine sein!

Many a beautiful green valley
excites and fascinates my eye,
the inhabitants’ eager efforts adorn it, 
and I drink in the sight with pleasure; 
“Why do you hesitate?” Ah, no!
There is no place like home!


                                     WALKER/Berry
(2) The Silence
(4) The Steps of The City
Though the air is full of singing 
my head is loud 
with the labor of words.  

Though the season is rich 
with fruit, my tongue 
hungers for the sweet of speech.  

Though the beech is golden 
I cannot stand beside it 
mute, but must say 

“It is golden,” while the leaves 
stir and fall with a sound 
that is not a name.  

It is in the silence 
that my hope is, and my aim.  
A song whose lines 

I cannot make or sing 
sounds men’s silence 
like a root.  Let me say 

and not mourn: the world 
lives in the death of speech 
and sings there.  
I stood and heard the steps of the city 
and dreamed a lighter stepping than I heard, 
the tread of my people dancing in a ring.  
I knew that circle broken, the steps awry, 
stone and iron humming in the air.  

But I thought even there, among the straying 
steps, of the dance that circles life around, 
its shadows moving on the ground, in rhyme 
of flesh with flesh, time with time, our bliss, 
the earthly song that heavenly is.  














