— PROGRAM —

- NOTES -

KÖHLER Concert Duet Variations on a Melody by Franz Schubert
Flute: Cathy Fraser
Flute: Cathy Wainwright
Piano: John Hughes
Duration 7’

ERNESTO KÖHLER (1849 – 1907) Concert Duet Variations on a Melody
by Franz Schubert
Born in Modena, Italy, Köhler was taught the flute by his father, who
was the first flute of the Duke of Modena's orchestra. Köhler moved to
Vienna in 1869 and was regarded by many as the finest flautist in
Europe. In 1871 he became a member of the orchestra of the Imperial
Opera in Saint Petersburg where he spent the greater part of his
professional life as an orchestral player and teacher. Köhler was also an
excellent composer for flute, writing over 100 études, duets, and solos
as well as an opera and several ballets.

BRAHMS Piano Quintet in F minor Op 34
(3) Scherzo (4) Finale
Violin: George Carrard
Violin: Regula Scheidegger
Viola: Marilyn McLeod
Cello: Jane Smith
Piano: Christine Edwards
Duration 17’
DEBUSSY Syrinx
Flute: Cathy Wainwright
Duration 3’

— INTERVAL —
HYDE Wedding Morn
HYDE Beside the Stream
Flute: Cathy Fraser
Piano: Lye Lin Ho
Duration 7’
PIAZZOLLA Le Grand Tango
Cello: Sharon Maennl
Piano: Neil Semmler
Duration 13’
ZEQUINHA DE ABREU (arr. Sjoerd van der Veen) Tico-Tico no fubá
MAHLER (arr. Cramer) 1. Rheinlegenchen
2. Wer hat dies Liedel erdacht?
3. Lob des Hohen Verstandes
Flute: Cathy Fraser Oboe: Liz Nurthen
Clarinet: Kate Sweeny
French Horn: Paula Stokes
Bassoon: Petrina Slaytor
Duration 15’
— REFRESHMENTS —

The flute underwent many technical improvements during the early
nineteenth century and from 1847 was almost identical to the flute we
play today. New compositions abounded, especially for amateur
players, that were mainly operatic pot-pourris or variations on well
known melodies of the day, such as this work. Composers such as the
Doppler brothers, Drouet, Köhler, Kuhlau and Kummer took advantage
of the greater technical freedom and wider dynamic range of the
instrument to emphasise charm and vocal elegance, as well as
including virtuosic sections intended to astonish and delight the
audience.
JOHANNES BRAHMS (1833-1897) Third and Fourth Movements (Scherzo
and Finale) of Piano Quintet in F minor Op 34
Brahms first jotted down ideas for his Op 34 when he was in his midtwenties walking in a forest near where he was staying. He destroyed
the first draft, a two-cello-string-quintet, and re-wrote it as a work for
two pianos, Op34a, which is still performed today. His friend Clara
Schumann advised that this version needed the string sonorities, and
Brahms published it in the final form for piano quintet - he was now
32.
The Scherzo commences in an ominous mood set by a pizzicato beat on
the cello and threatening dotted rhythm from the full quintet. This is
then contrasted by a march in triumphal mood. These moods alternate
until the dotted rhythm is transformed into the dramatic 'hammer and
tongs' passage. The drama is contrasted with a lyrical and relaxing Trio
before returning to the Scherzo.

A slow mysterious introduction to the Finale is reminiscent of
Mozart’s 'Dissonance' string quartet. The following Allegro non troppo
develops folksy elements into an exciting conclusion.

CLAUDE DEBUSSY (1862–1918) Syrinx (1913)
Syrinx was the first significant piece for solo flute after the Sonata in A
minor composed by C P E Bach over 150 years before (1747). It is the
first such solo composition for the modern flute, perfected in 1847.
Syrinx is commonly considered to be an indispensable part of any
flutist's repertoire. Many musical historians believe that "Syrinx",
which gives the performer generous room for interpretation and
emotion, played a pivotal role in the development of solo flute music in
the early twentieth century. Some say Syrinx was originally written by
Debussy without barlines or breath marks. The flutist Marcel Moyse
may have later added these, and most publishers publish Moyse's
edition
MIRIAM HYDE (1913 – 2005)
Miriam Hyde was a virtuosic pianist and composer at a time when
women struggled to be recognised in music both in Australia and
internationally. She was a prolific composer of over 150 instrumental
and vocal works for piano, including piano concertos and chamber
ensembles and orchestral works.
In ‘Wedding Morn’ (1957), listen out for wedding bells, confetti,
conversations and varying emotions, both light and dark. It ends on
rather a questioning note. The composer was married in St Michael’s
Church in Vaucluse, at the start of the 2nd World War, her husband
becoming a prisoner of war, which separated them for 5 years. This
piece reflects the depth of emotions that one can imagine on such a
wedding morning.
In ‘Beside the Stream’ (1962) you will hear the story of water on its
journey down a stream. Listen for birdsong behind the flowing water,
you may hear twigs getting caught behind rocks, burbling water,
sometimes calm and sometimes more frantic, but settling in a calm
gentle rocking finish.
ASTOR PIAZZOLLA (1921-1992) Le Grand Tango
Astor Pantaleón Piazzolla was an Argentine tango composer, virtuoso
bandoneon player, and arranger. His compositions revolutionized the
traditional tango into a new style termed “Nuevo Tango” (New Tango)

which incorporates traditional tango rhythms and Jazz inspired
syncopation.
Piazzolla composed Le Grand Tango, Spanish El gran tango, in 1982
for Russian cellist Mstislav Rostropovich, who did not play it until
1990 or record it until 1996. The work is structured in a single
movement with three broad sections. It opens with “Tempo di tango,”
in which strongly accented tango rhythms dominate. In the second
section, performers are told to allow more emotion, with a “libero e
cantabile” (free and singing) spirit. It contains extensive dialogue
between the cello and the piano. Piazzolla indicated “giocoso”
(humorous), in the final section, which evokes a mood of electric energy
and humour.

ZEQUINHA DE ABREU (1880 – 1935) Tico-Tico no fubá
Zequinha de Abreu was a Brazilian musician and composer, best
known for this piece written in 1917. It is an example of ‘choro’ music,
an instrumental Brazilian popular music genre, usually with a fast and
happy rhythm, despite choro meaning little cry or lament.
Tico-Tico no fubá literally means rufous collared sparrow in the
cornmeal. It reached popularity outside of Brazil in the 1940s and has
been recorded in a variety of forms, including, organ, guitar, and voice.
This arrangement is by Sjoerd van der Veen, a composer from the
Netherlands who arranges a wide variety of music for winds.
GUSTAV MAHLER (1860-1911)
Rheinlegenchen
Wer hat dies Liedel erdacht?
Lob des Hohen Verstandes
This arrangement by Cramer for wind quintet is of three songs from
Mahler’s composition for voice and piano or voice and orchestra. The
Des Knaben Wunderhorn (The Youth’s Magic Horn) includes
Rheinlegenchen (Little Rhine Legend, 1893); Wer hat dies Liedel
erdacht? (Who thought up this song?, 1892); Lob des hohen
Verstandes (Praise of Lofty Intellect, 1896).The original set is a group of
anonymous Greek folk tunes, however Mahler composed his own group
of twelve additional songs under the title "Humoresken", which these
three songs are from.

Concert organisers Cathy Wainwright and Cathy Fraser
Charge
$15 entry donation
$10 concession/seniors
to cover costs
Light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on
“Join Us”, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org
or write to ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
4pm Sunday 3 November 2019

