ACMS
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— CONCERT —
5pm Sunday 5th May 2019
Kirribilli Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.thekirribillicentre.org tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
C. P. E. BACH Trio Sonata in B Minor
(1) Allegro (2) Adagio (3) Presto
flute Alex Chervonsky violin Tassia Kolesnikow
cello Sybbi Georgiou piano Lyn Chong

JOSEPH SUK Piano Quartet in A Minor
(1) Allegro Appassionato (2) Adagio
(3) Allegro con fuoco
violin Jenny Allison viola Eve Salinas cello Clara Blazer
piano Ludwig Sugiri
— INTERVAL —

ARVO PART “Spiegel im Spiegel”
cello Clara Blazer piano Kian Woo

MOZART String Duo No. 1 in G Major
(1) Allegro (2) Adagio (3) Rondeau
violin Jenny Allison viola Michelle Urquhart
—REFRESHMENTS—

- Notes C.P.E. Bach (1714-1788) Trio Sonata in B Minor for Flute, Violin, Cello and
Harpsichord
Carl (Karl) Philipp Emanuel Bach was a German Classical period musician and
composer. He was the son of Johann Sebastian Bach and Maria Barbara Bach and
the godson of Philipp Telemann after whom he was named. He worked at a time of
transition between his father’s Baroque style and the Classical style that followed it.
He was known as the “Berlin Bach” during his residence in that city, then the
“Hamburg Bach” where he lived and died to distinguish him from his brother
Johann Christian who was known as the “London Bach” while working as music
master to the English Queen. C.P.E.Bach was a prolific composer and a notable
keyboard performer. The Trio Sonata in B minor was composed in 1731 in Leipzig
where he was a student. He wrote a number of trio sonatas and solo sonatas with
basso continuo as well as what were really early piano trios: keyboard, violin and
cello. He wrote one of the earliest pieces for solo flute and included the flute in his
three very popular quartets.
Joseph Suk (1874-1935) Piano Quartet in A Minor
Joseph Suk was 17 years old when he wrote the piano quartet in March 1891 at his
home village Kfecovice. Dvorak asked Suk to show his composition to the class at
Prague Conservatory. By then the work was still in a draft version. Suk sang the
melodic themes and played the piano of the 1st and 2nd movements. The music was
still in unfinished state and yet it impressed the whole school, fellow students and
Dvorak.
Two months later the piano quartet was completed and premiered at a soiree in
Rudolfinum Hall. Emanuel Chvala, an eminent Prague music critic wrote
“Everything that Suk expresses is musical at its core, with the energetic stroke and
effusion of true talent”. Novak, who was three years more senior, confessed that Suk
surpassed him by several years in experience.
Czechoslavakia at the time was under the Austro-Hungarian Empire and there were
strong anti-Czech nationalism attitudes in Austria and Germany. The piano quartet
was published a year later by Urbanek, a Prague publishing company, upon the
recommendation of Dvorak. Suk also received acknowledgment and support from
Brahms.
This piano quartet has richness of idea, dramatic character and thematic
sophistication.
Source: Preface to Barenreiter edition (2013) by Zdenek Nouza, Czech musicologist.

Arvo Pärt (b. 1935) “Spiegel im Spiegel”

Arvo Pärt (b. 1935) is an Estonian composer. Imagine a mirror in front of you and a
mirror behind you. What would you see? Answer, mirrors in mirrors. The literal
translation of Arvo Pärt’s work “Spiegel im Spiegel” can be both “Mirror in the
Mirror” or “Mirrors in the Mirror”. He wrote this work for string instrument (violin or
viola or cello) and piano, translating this visual phenomenon literally into music.
The string line keeps reflecting in an ever expanding phrase, either side of a central
‘A’ (the mediant of the tonic key of F major).
The piano part reflects around a musical cell/riff in the right hand. The left hand
literally reflects above and below the right hand.
But the music itself keeps one questioning. For example:
For the audience, on first hearing, is this fascinating visual structure obvious?
Does it need to be obvious?
Should both performers and audience be striving to find deeper, ‘real’ meaning
hidden in the mirrorings of this work?
Or should we all, literally, just listen and reflect?
Wolfgang Mozart (1756-1791) String Duo No. 1 in G Major
Wolfgang Mozart was born in Salzburg and was to become one of the most
influential and prolific composers through time. He composed over 600 works, as
Wikipedia says “reaching the pinnacles with his concertante, chamber, operatic and
choral compositions”. The String Duo in G Major was the first of the two that he
wrote to complete Michael Haydn’s set of six for the Archbishop Colloredo in the
summer of 1783. However, the set was presented as being all by Haydn with the
Archbishop not detecting Mozart’s workmanship even though the composing styles
of the two men were very different. Mozart treated the two instruments as equals
and he added sixteenths as well as double stops to the viola part. His treatment of
the viola was highly innovative for its time. The piece can be played on the cello by
transposing the viola part down and changing to bass clef.

concert organiser Jenny Allison
Light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries) are provided.
$15 entry donation ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs.
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on “Join
Us”, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

ACMS
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 05 May 2019
5pm

