- Notes -

ACMS
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— CONCERT —
5pm Sunday 7th July 2019
Kirribilli Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.thekirribillicentre.org tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —

DEBUSSY (1862-1918) Eight Selected Pieces for flute and piano, (arranged by
Peter Kolman)
Claude Debussy was a notable composer of the French impressionist school of
music. This particular set of 8 pieces of Debussy (of which we are performing 5)
arranged for flute and piano has been drawn from different collections of piano
pieces, but they include some old favourites. They have been arranged for flute and
piano by Peter Kolman, b. 1937, a Slovakian by birth who, because he was
outspoken against the Communists, was expelled from the Association of Slovak
Composers after the Prague Spring (1968). In 1977 he emigrated to Austria, taking
citizenship there and becoming an editor at Universal Edition in 1979 where he
worked until 2002. He is now a freelance composer and has composed chamber and
orchestral as well as electronic music. He also did many arrangements for Universal,
among them this set of Debussy pieces.

DEBUSSY Eight Selected Pieces for flute and piano
La fille aux cheveux de lin Clair de lune Bruyères
The little shepherd Prélude
flute Richard Tardif piano Sue Butler
20’

SAY The Ballad of Gezi Park (Gezi Park 3)
soprano Maria Oei piano Glenn Waworuntu
8’

— INTERVAL —

BEETHOVEN Sonata No 8 in G major Op 30 No. 3
(1) Allegro assai
violin Ben Chan piano Kian Woo
8’

FAURE Piano Quartet No 1 in C minor Op 15
(1) Allegro molto moderato (3) Adagio
violin Ben Chan viola Daniel Morris cello Nicole McVicar
piano Kian Woo
18’

—REFRESHMENTS—

SAY (1970- ) The Ballad of Gezi Park (Gezi Park 3)
Fazil Say reflects on the events which took place in Gezi Park in Istanbul during May
and June 2013 in three works focused on the piano as the principal Instrument: 1)
a concerto for 2 pianos, 2) a solo piano sonata and 3) The Ballad of Gezi Park which
describes the events in June 2013, when the eyes of the world turned towards
Turkey. First composed as a ballad for soprano, piano and string orchestra, The
Ballad of Gezi Park (Gezi Park 3) is a wordless sorrowful meditation on the escalation
of violence caused by the severe police response. The piano writing, initially
Debussian, turns jagged and increasingly feverish towards the climax. Today’s
performance is the version for mezzo-soprano and piano.
BEETHOVEN (1770-1827) Piano and Violin Sonata No 8 in G major Op 30 No 3
Beethoven’s eighth violin sonata is one of his more light hearted and is filled with
humour and warmth. The lively first movement contains scale-like passages and
trills, and surprise effects such as unexpected accents and high pitched violin
interjections. The sonata was written a few months after Beethoven wrote the
Heilgenstadt Testament, a letter which records his despair at his growing deafness
and records his resolution to continue living for and through his art.
FAURÉ (1845-1924) Piano Quartet No 1 in C minor Op 15
This is one of Fauré’s most popular chamber works. It was written between 1876 1879, during the later stages of his relationship with Marianne Viardot, daughter of
the famous singer Pauline Viardot, which ended when Marianne broke off their
engagement after only four months.
The first movement begins with a dramatic theme declared by the strings, offset with
chords from the piano. Various sections flow seamlessly into one another - energetic
sections lead to lyrical passages - and melodies are passed between viola, cello,
violin and piano. The musical texture changes frequently.

The Adagio is one of Fauré’s finest slow movements. Marguerite Long, student of
Faure, reportedly could not hold back her tears when playing this in her first public
performance of her master’s work. However such public shows of emotion are in
contrast to the words of Fauré’s biographer Émile Vuillermoz, who writes “Fauré’s
reserve always prevented him from following the example of Romantic artists who
allowed the whole world to witness their personal frustration”. Indeed, despite the
mournful beginning, there is an air of noble restraint throughout and the piece ends
with a serene coda

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

ACMS
concert organiser Kian Woo
Light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) are provided.
$15 entry donation ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs.
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on “Join
Us”, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org

http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 7 July 2019
5pm

