The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
4.00pm Sunday 13 October 2019

concert organiser Tony Tenney
light refreshments (wine juice and savouries)
$15 entry donation ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on “Join
Us”, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org, or write to ACMS
Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

Amateur Chamber Music Society

— A PROGRAM OF MEDIEVAL AND
RENAISSANCE MUSIC —
I CANTARINI
GIOVANNI PALESTRINA (1525-94) – Quando dal terzo cielo
MOGENS PEDERSON (1585-1623) – Se nel partir
PHILIPPE VERDELOT (d. c.1550) – Italia mia
Soprano: Eleanor Gilkes, Samantha Cobcroft, Coralie Le Nevez
Tenor: Don Nicholson, John Cunningham
Bass: Ian Butler, Mike Johnson
Theorbo: Bernard Williams

MEDIEVAL AND RENAISSANCE MUSIC
FOR RECORDERS
Lamento di Tristana – Estampie (Anon)
ANTONY HOLBORNE (d.1602)
The Choise – The Sighes – The Night watch
Recorders: Megan Petrass, Robert Small,
Tony Tenney, Anna Vale, Bernard Williams
Percussion: Susan Christie

In Ecco mormorar l’onde the young Claudio Monteverdi (1567-1643) is showing off
his prowess, demonstrating the ‘new style’ by reworking the Vezzosi augelli of the
aging senior musician at Ferrara, the Fleming Giaches de Wert.

Throughout the period of popularity of the madrigal (roughly 1520 - 1640)
madrigalists consciously strove to illustrate the meaning and passion of the text
through the music, using various techniques such as word-painting, dramatic
changes in texture and chromaticism. By the time we reach Luca Marenzio (1553
– 1599) his art had reached full maturity, even employing enharmonic modulation.
He wrote 500 madrigals in 23 books. He was hailed as “the Schubert of the
madrigal” and the “first of the moderns” implying that there was still further to go.
Monteverdi congratulated himself for inventing new styles of music such as the
warlike and the agitated styles, the latter still used by Verdi. Marenzio was
banished from Rome for overmuch familiarity with a niece of the Pope; he went to
Poland and died shortly after his return. He is represented in this program with
two madrigals, Quando miro le rose and Filli volgendo.

Adriaan Willaert born in Bruges in 1490 was the last and most famous Fleming to
spend his whole career in Italy. His usual style is denser than Verdelot’s but the
little piece, Vecchie letrose, we hear today is close to the rustic frottola. Twenty
years on from la Barbera, trained women singers were becoming available, but
were closely guarded by chaperones. The male academicians who employed a
singing lady held the chaperones in low esteem.

William Byrd was the pre-eminent musician of his generation, an all-rounder
excelling in keyboard, vocal and ensemble forms. He was bred up to musick by
Thomas Tallis; he widened the horizon of English music through competition with
the elder Alfonso Ferrabosco, a Venetian who had been recruited by Henry VIII.
Although a Catholic, he was appointed organist of Elizabeth’s Anglican chapel. She
gave a sole patent for the printing of music to Tallis and Byrd so that Byrd could
pay his fines for not attending church on his Sundays off from the Chapel Royal.
Although inventing dance music may seem achievable, inventing abstract
instrumental music from scratch while keeping up interest and direction was
probably much harder, but Byrd was up to the challenge, producing the first
European masterpieces. Viol players adopted this work and soon other composers
such as White and Parsons produced their own. Byrd wrote seven In Nomines and
in so doing made a quantum improvement on his predecessors. Altogether about
150 In Nomines were written in the 16th & 17th centuries. Usually the chant is
played slowly by one viol, the other viols weave faster moving parts around it, often
imitating snatches of the chant.
Diego Ortiz, a Spanish viol virtuoso working at the Aragonese viceregal court in
Naples wrote a treatise in 1550, for the first time writing down the sorts of chord
progressions, decorations and improvisations which had been used over the
previous hundred years both by dance bands and also to accompany the recitation
of epic poetry, to which he added many polished improvisations of his own
invention. We hear the first of these set to an Italian tenor (or chord progression)
known as the Passamezzo Antiguo. – Notes by John Cunningham
Giovanni Gabrieli (1554/55-1612) was appointed as the principal composer to
San Marco cathedral in Venice in 1585 following the death of his predecessor and
uncle, Andreas Gabrieli. At the time of this appointment, Gabrieli was already
organist at San Marco, as well as at Venice’s prestigious Scuola Grande di San
Roco. His music exemplifies the transition between renaissance and baroque
musical styles, and he is particularly noted for expanding on the ‘cori spezzati’ style
for which Venice, and San Marco cathedral with its two facing organ lofts, were
particularly renowned. The style is characterised by contrasting and spatially
separated choirs employing statements and echoed responses.
Lieto Godea Sedenda (‘Happily I sat') appeared in 1587 in Giovanni’s earliest
publication, Concerti, in which he also recorded many works of his late uncle.
These early works of Giovanni reflect the strong influence of his late uncle in his
compositional style. – Notes by Megan Petrass

MUSIC FOR VIOLS
TIELMAN SUSATO (c.1500–c.1562)
Pavane Mille Regretz – Ronde Wo Bistu – Ronde
Viols: Susan Christie, John Cunningham, Susan Foulcher, Jane Grimm

RENAISSANCE MUSIC FOR RECORDER CONSORT
GIOVANNI PAOLO CIMA (c 1570-16) - Canzon
ANDREAS PEVERNAGE (1542-91) – Douce liberté desirée

— Interval —
MUSIC FOR VIOLS
WILLIAM BYRD (1543-1623) - In Nomine
DIEGO ORTIZ (c.1510- c.1576) - Recercada Prima

MUSIC FOR VIOLS & RECORDERS
GIOVANNI GABRIELI (c.1544-1612) – Lieto godea sedendo
in 8 parts

I CANTARINI
CLAUDIO MONTEVERDI (1567-1643) – Ecco mormorar
LUCA MARENZIO (1553-99)
Filli volgendo – Quand’io miro le rose
ADRIAN WILLAERT (1490-1562) – Vecchie letrose

— Refreshments —

- Notes Giovanni Palestrina’s work is generally considered to be the culmination of the
Franco-Flemish church style. He held senior appointments in the major churches
of Rome, including the Sistine. However he was let go from the Sistine by a Pope
who disapproved of married men in his chapel. After the death of his first wife, a
singer, he married a rich fur-trading widow but continued to compose. He wrote
many sacred works and three books of madrigals, one of them sacred. ‘Quando dal
terzo cielo’ for six voices was one of 29 commissioned by a Roman nobleman as a
wedding present to his wife; each of the 29 works has the same refrain “Viva la
bella Dori”.
Mogens Pederson (1585-1623) was an outstanding Danish composer of the 17th
century. He travelled to Venice, where he learnt from the famous Giovanni Gabrieli
at the San Marco church. A collection of his five part madrigals, including ‘Se nel
partir’ was published in Venice by Gardano during his second visit.
Philippe Verdelot was born in the North of France in about 1478; he came to
Northern Italy in his 30s and filled prestigious appointments in Venice and
Florence. He successfully grafted the learned Franco-Flemish church style on to
the folksy Italian frottola to produce the first madrigals.
Italy took longer than most European countries to be unified and repel invaders.
Francesco Petrarca wrote the poem “Italia Mia” about the problem in the 14th
century. When Rome was sacked in 1527 by the army of Charles V, Florence did
not send any troops to help the Romans. By way of apology, the Florentine
diplomat Niccolo Machiavelli was despatched to Rome with Barbera Salutati,
probably the first professional woman singer, to sing ‘Italia Mia’ of which
Machiavelli had commissioned a setting from Verdelot. - Notes by John
Cunningham
The Lament was a dance form in the middle ages, as was the Estampie, which
was a generic term for medieval dances with repeating sections. They were usually
performed outdoors accompanied by wind instruments and sometimes included
singing. Now anonymous, very little of this early musical notation has survived.
Not much is known of Antony Holborne but he was musically active around the
Elizabethan court from about 1580 until his death in 1602. He is best known for
his compositions for lute, bandora and cittern. In 1599 he published a collection of
music for “consorts” of various instruments: Pavans, Galliards, Almains, and other
short Aeirs both grave, and light, in five parts, for Viols, Violins or other Musicall
Winde Instruments. It is said that he published these works to minimise copying
piracy, apparently as rife then as now! – Notes by Tony Tenney

Prior to the invention of music printing in 1501, little instrumental music was
written; most dance music was improvised and remembered. Instrumental music
was mostly in three parts, usually with different instruments such as harp, lute
and fiddle or flute. By about 1520 the scene was changing rapidly; the new fashion
was for dance music in four parts realized by four instruments of the same family.
Families of four recorders, viols and even bassoons from soprano to bass size were
invented. Printed dance music for such bands was provided by printers like
Tielman Susato of Antwerp, at the sign of the crumhorn. A dancing craze erupted
throughout Europe by about 1550. Susato kept a stable of hack
composer/arrangers of dance music and also psalm tunes and chansons. We hear
two simple 4-part dances from the Susato press: Wo bistu (where are you?) and
another ronde for which the dancers held hands and danced in a circle.
In the charts since 1505 Josquin des Prez’ chanson Mille Regretz (1000 regrets on
abandoning you) remained popular and in demand from the sorts of people who
request that the band play their favourite song; accordingly Susato had the song
arranged in neat 8 bar strains and the haunting modal flavour of the original
ironed out somewhat. – Notes by John Cunningham
Giovanni Paolo Cima was an Italian composer of the late renaissance/early
baroque and a contemporary of Monteverdi known for his innovative music for
instruments. He was based in Milan. The Canzon selected for today's performance
is in 4 parts, soprano, alto, tenor and bass, and is in a most attractive lively style.
The usual Canzon rhythm of minim followed by two crochets is cheekily reversed in
order and sped up with a resulting pattern of two semi quavers followed by a
quaver that is obvious from beginning to end. The work is full of witty imitations
and counter melodies that make it a joy to listen to and to play. – Notes by Robert
Small
Andreas Pevernage or Andries Pevernage (1542/3 – 1591) was a Flemish
composer of the late Renaissance and a choirmaster in Bruges, Kortrijk, and
Antwerp. He was one of a few composers from the Low Countries who remained in
his native land throughout the turbulent period of religious conflict in the late 16th
century. He was a skilled composer of chansons, motets and madrigals. – Notes by
Bernard Williams, translation below by Lance Eccles
Douce Liberté désirée,
Déesse, où t’estu retirée,
Me laissant en captivité ?
Hélas! de moi ne te détourne !
Retourne, ô Liberté ! retourne,
Retourne, ô douce Liberté.

Sweet Liberty desired,
Goddess, where have you gone,
Leaving me in captivity?
Alas! Don't turn away from me!
Return, o Liberty! Return,
Return, o sweet Liberty.

