BRAHMS (1833-1897) Sonata in G major Op 78

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— CONCERT PROGRAM —
BRAHMS Fragment of Rain Song (Regenlied) Op 59
soprano Katharina Raffelsberger

piano Christine Edwards

2’

BRAHMS Sonata in G major Op 78
(1) Vivace ma non troppo (2) Adagio — Più andante — Adagio
(3) Allegro molto moderato
violin George Carrard piano Christine Edwards
24’

Songs from Musicals and Operas
NICOLAI “Now hurry here” from The Merry Wives of Windsor
MASSENET “Goodbye My Little Table” from Manon
PUCCINI “Goodbye ... No Hard Feelings” from La Bohème
LOEWE “I Could Have Danced All Night” from My Fair Lady
soprano Katharina Raffelsberger piano Patsy Short
15’

As a 20 year old, Johannes Brahms became friends with the 23 year old József
Joachim, who had been a famous violinist since his performance of
Beethoven’s violin concerto in London at the age of 13. Later Joachim gave
Brahms, then 22, a letter of introduction to Clara and Robert Schumann who
accepted him with enthusiasm and whose recommendation led to publishers
accepting his works. At the time, Robert was an established composer and
author and Clara was a famous pianist. Robert died three years later but,
twenty-five years later in 1878, Brahms, now 45, was still friends with Joachim
and Clara. With Joachim’s help, Brahms was working on the final draft of his
Violin Concerto Op 77 and was thinking about ideas for his G-major sonata.
He told Joachim "we can also play a small sonata … for recreation.” So the Gmajor sonata was perhaps conceived as a holiday recreation for the two friends
after the premiere of the concerto on 1 January 1879, with Joachim as soloist
and Brahms conducting the orchestra.
Later that year Brahms sent a copy of the sonata to Clara, who replied "You
can imagine my delight when, after the first delicate and charming movement
and the second movement, I found once again, in the third, my adored melody
with the enchanting quaver motion.” She is referring here to Brahms's "Rain
Song (Regenlied) Op 59”, the first two bars of which the composer used in the
finale of the sonata. The dotted rhythm of this song also forms the basis of the
first and second movements.
The sonata was immediately beloved by audiences and musicians alike.
Particularly appealing is Brahms's ability to introduce a new idea and make it
seem that nothing else could have been more appropriate.

— INTERVAL —
Songs from Musicals and Operas

RACHMANINOV Three of Six Pieces
for Four Hands Op 11
(1) Barcarolle (2) Scherzo (3) Russian Theme
piano Patsy Short and Susan Butler
15’

Two Pieces for Piano Solo
CHOPIN Fantaisie - Impromptu, Op 66
HAYDN "Allegro moderato" from Sonata in F major Hob XVI:23
piano Belinda Qin
9’

— REFRESHMENTS —

Please see attached sheet.
RACHMANINOV (1873-1943) Three of Six Pieces Ops 11
Piano duets have been written for centuries. Mozart wrote them to play with
his sister. Schubert wrote a number among which is the one considered the
pinnacle of the genre, his Fantasy in F minor. The popularity of the duet,
however, kept track with the rise of the modern piano, reaching its height in
the late 1800s and early 1900s. As pianos were mass-produced, amateur
pianists provided a market for duets that could be played at home. They were
equally welcome in the salons of Europe at that time.
This duet was written in 1894, a couple of years after Sergei Rachmaninov
graduated from the Moscow Conservatorium, so it is written in a conservative
style although showing signs of the composer’s lifetime interest in Russian folk
music.

Two Pieces for Piano Solo
CHOPIN (1810-1849) Fantaisie - Impromptu, Op 66
Chopin is best known for his solo piano works though he did write two piano
concertos, a cello sonata and a piano trio. Chopin’s music results in
astonishing originality and his genius had no predecessor. His every phrase,
technical pattern and ornament sounds inevitably proper to the piano. Chopin
has achieved a poetry that remains ever new and alive.
HAYDN (1732-1809) “Allegro moderato” from Sonata in F major Hob XVI:23
Haydn was an innovator in the history of string quartets, symphonies and also
the solo keyboard, for which he wrote 62 Sonatas. The sonatas have been
almost forgotten gems till recently. Sonata in F major, Hob XVI:23 was
composed in 1773, probably for harpsichord because Haydn did not own a
fotepiano till 1778. It has three movements.

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/
present

Chamber Music Concert
5pm Sunday 7 April 2019

Concert organiser: George Carrard
ACMS members provide
light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and
charge $15 entry donation ($10 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for Kirribilli Centre
For information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”)
and click on “Concerts”
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on
“Join Us”, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org, or write to
ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

