- Notes -

Amateur Chamber Music Society

Vocal: Arias and Duos

http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— PROGRAM —
Vocal: Arias and Duos
BESLY The Second Minuet (duo)
MOZART Bei Mӓnnern (duo)
MOZART O Isis and Osiris (Aria for bass)
MOZART La Ci Darem (duo)
MOZART Mi Tradi

(Aria for soprano)

MOZART Papageno & Papagena (duo)

Soprano Miriam Blatt Baritone Mark Berriman
Piano Patricia Short
duration 30’

VERDI Fantasia Brilliante on Verdi's “Un Ballo in Maschera”
Arranged by Chris Palmer
Bassoon Chris Palmer

Piano Patricia Short

duration 11’

VILLA-LOBOS Suite for Voice and Violin
(1)A Menina e a Canção: Un Pouco Moderato
(2) Quéro sel alegre: Vagaroso E Calmo
(3) Sertaneja: Animado E Espriritoso
Soprano Miriam Blatt Violin Daniel Morris

MAURICE BESLY’s The Second Minuet duo was composed in 1926 to words by
Aubrey Dowdon. It describes the first meeting of the singers’ grandparents.
MOZART’s “The Magic Flute” is the source for the “Bei Mӓnnern” duo, the “O
Isis and Osiris” aria, and the “Papageno & Papagena” duo. In “Bei Mӓnnern”,
Pamina and Papageno are singing of the joy of being in love, though not with each
other. In “Papageno & Papagena”, Papageno meets his birdlike partner Papagena,
and they sing of wanting to produce many little Papagenos and Papagenas. In “O
Isis and Osiris”, Sarastro instructs Tamino and Pamino on how they will be tested
before they can be married.
MOZART’s “Don Giovanni” is the source for the “La Ci Darem” duo and the “Mi
Tradi” aria. In “La Ci Darem”, Don Giovanni is wooing Zerlina, despite her
imminent marriage to Masetto. She agrees to run off with him. She is saved
immediately after the duo by Donna Elvira, another victim of Don Giovanni’s
machinations. The “Mi Tradi” area of Donna Elvira describes her horror at Don
Giovanni’s betrayals and horrific behavior, deserving of swift and complete justice,
despite which she cannot help continuing to feel love for him.

Fantasia Brillante on Verdi’s “Un Ballo In Maschera”
Virtuoso showpieces based on melodies from operas were standard fare in the 19th
century. Best-known are the operatic transcriptions and fantasies for piano by
Liszt, but there are many such pieces for other instruments. For many years I
wished I could find such a piece for bassoon, but it seems the bassoon was
excluded from this fashion. The only answer was to write my own 19th century
style Fantasia, which I based on melodies from my favourite Verdi opera: “Un
Ballo in Maschera” (A Masked Ball). I hope I have helped to correct an injustice,
giving bassoonists and audiences a work that should have been written 140 years
ago.
- Chris Palmer

duration 10’

— INTERVAL —

BRAHMS Sonata for Viola and Piano in F minor
(1)Allegro appassionata (2) Andante un poco Adagio
(3)Allegretto grazioso (4)Vivace
Viola Miriam Blatt Piano Patricia Short
duration 25’

— REFRESHMENTS —

HEITOR VILLA-LOBOS (1887-1959) Suite for Voice and Violin (1923)
Around the same time Bartok and Kodaly were scouring the Hungarian
countryside in search of the authentic folk music of Eastern Europe, VillaLobos began ethno-musicological explorations into Brazil's "dark interior,”
emerging with fantastic tales of capture and near-escape from cannibals. He
immersed himself in Brazil’s indigenous culture and popular music, based

on Portuguese, African, and American Indian elements.
The three songs in the 1923 Suite 1833-1897 for Voice and Violin have titles
“The Young Girl and the Song,” “I Want to be Happy,” and “The Peasant Girl of
Brazil.” The first song is a young girl skipping along, who offers help to an old

lady with a large bundle of clothing balanced on her head. The old lady says
“No!”. The second song has no words, but plenty of atmosphere: whoever wants
to be happy keeps trying, but fails to get there. The third song is set in Brazil’s
equivalent of the Wild West. One can imagine a horse rider wielding guns and
knives. The third song was considered by some to be unperformable,
demanding the highest level of skill and virtuosity for violin.
JOHANNES BRAHMS (1833-1897) Sonata for Viola and Piano Op 120 No 1 in
F minor (1894)
The sonatas Op 120 No 1 & 2 for clarinet and piano were written for Richard
Mühlfeld, the Meiningen clarinettist whose beautiful playing inspired Brahms
to come out of retirement. Brahms published them for both clarinet and viola,
and they immediately became mainstays of the repertoire.
The Sonata No 1 in F minor, Op 120 for viola and piano, opens with a dark and
atmospheric Allegro appassionato, eventually winding down to a tenderly
expressive coda. The Andante sustains a sweetly reflective mood. The third
movement is a rustic Austrian Ländler in F minor and the relative Ab major.
The work ends with an exuberant, extroverted, high-spirited Vivace in F major.

concert organiser Miriam Blatt
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Centre provide
light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and
charge $15 entry donation ($10 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org/sydney/
(or Google “ACMS chamber music society Australia”)
and click on “Concerts”
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on
“Join Us”, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org, or write to
ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

ACMS
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 01 Sept 2019
4pm

