Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— CONCERT PROGRAM —
MOZART Sonata No 32 in B-Flat Major K 454
(1) Largo - Allegro (2) Andante (3) Allegretto
violin George Carrard piano Christine Edwards
23’

Romantic/Nationalist Songs
CHAUSSON "Le Colibri" GRIEG “Solvejg's Song"
RIMSKY-KORSAKOV “The Nightingale”
soprano Judy Rough violin Regula Scheidegger
piano Susan Butler
12’

Songs from the Baroque
CACCINI "Amarilli mia Bella"
SCARLATTI “Le Violette"
soprano Judy Rough piano Susan Butler
10’

— INTERVAL —

GRIEG Sonata No 1 in F major Op 8
(1) Allegro con brio (2) Allegretto quasi andantino
(3) Allegro molto vivace
violin Regula Scheidegger piano Susan Butler
23’

SCHUBERT The Shepherd on the Rock D965
soprano Judy Rough clarinet Yeesum Lo
piano Susan Butler
13’

— REFRESHMENTS —
MOZART (1756-1791) MOZART Sonata No 32 in B-Flat Major K 454
The 28 year old Mozart wrote this sonata at the request of a famous violinist
Regina Strinasacchi who came to Vienna in 1784 as part of a tour of Europe.
Mozart wrote to his father “We now have the famous Strinasacchi … here—a
very good violinist. She has much taste and feeling in her playing. I am just
now writing a sonata which we will play together in the theatre on Thursday at
her benefit concert.” With only a few days to do this, he did not have enough
time to write out the keyboard part and performed it from memory. Not
wanting to appear clever, he pretended to have the score in front of him, which

was blank, as spotted through opera glasses by a member of the audience,
Emperor Joseph II.
Regina had some training as an opera singer. The slow introduction to the
first movement has the flavour of grand opera. The movement continues with
the Allegro that is serene and playful with some references to comic opera.
Again the middle slow movement has the flavour of opera as well as a slow
dance with elaborate ornamentation. Mozart composed it as an Adagio and
later decided it should be Andante. The concluding Allegretto in rondo form
presents a cornucopia of sparkling melodic ideas, so avoiding the danger of
over-familiarity of the repeating rondo theme. Mozart was not shy to appear
clever towards the end of this movement: in the conversation between the
violin and the piano, the violin (Regina) makes a brilliant statement in triplets,
only to be outdone by the piano (Mozart) answering in more rapid quadruplets.
Romantic/Nationalist songs
Solveig’s song, Le Colibri,and The Nightingale & the Rose are fine examples of
songs from the Romantic period. The music of composers such as Grieg (18431907) and Rimsky-Korsakov (1844-1908) was characterised by an emphasis
on national musical elements such as the use of folk songs, folk dances or
rhythms. Chausson (1855-1899) perfectly captures a dreamy and sensuous
garden in which a hummingbird floats in midair.
Pieces for Voice and Piano
Amarilli mia bella and Le Violette are examples of early Italian music. Amarilli is
the best known of the solo madrigals Giulio Caccini (1550-1618) included in Le
Nuove Musiche of 1602. Le Violette is from the opera Pirro e Demetrio by
Alessandro Scarlatti (1660-1725) which was premiered in 1694.
GRIEG (1843-1907) Sonata No 1 in F major Op 8
Edward Grieg composed this sonata while on a holiday near Copenhagen when
he was only 22. There is a spring-like freshness about Grieg’s invention
throughout this work. Although there are discreet echoes of Norwegian folkmusic in the first movement, it is not until the second that he explicitly
simulates traditional Norwegian folk-dance music. The finale, like the first
movement, builds its structure from a chain of three contrasting melodies that
sparkle like a mountain waterfall.
When the work came to Liszt’s attention, he wrote to the young Grieg: “Sir, I
am glad to be able to tell you of the sincere pleasure that I have derived from
reading through your Sonata, Op 8. It bears witness to a talent for
composition—vigorous, reflective, inventive, and of excellent material—which
has only to follow its own way to rise to the heights. I assume that in your own
country you receive the success and encouragement you deserve. … - F. Liszt,
29 December 1868.” The letter was presented to the parliament, which
granted Grieg a pension, so he could concentrate on composing.

SCHUBERT (1797-1828) The Shepherd on the Rock D965 (Op posth 129)
Schubert composed The Shepherd on the Rock (Der Hirt auf dem Felsen) in
October, 1828, a month before his death, and it was one of his last two songs.
It is set to texts by poet Wilhelm Müller and playwright Helmina von Chézy;
was composed specifically for noted soprano Anna Milder-Hauptmann in
appreciation of her artistry; and is unusual in requiring both a virtuoso
clarinetist as well as the usual piano accompanist.
In Müller’s first two verses, a shepherd laments the distance between him and
his beloved. Next comes Chézy’s two-stanza contribution, a first-person
reflection on loneliness and grief. The concluding stanza, another by Müller,
celebrates the arrival of spring. Schubert’s music masterfully conveys those
evolving feelings: it is languid and generally lower pitched at the start, then
dancing and moving higher in pitch toward the song’s exuberant and hopeful
conclusion.

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/
presents

Chamber Music Concert
5pm Sunday 4 August 2019

Concert organisers: Regula Scheidegger and George Carrard
Light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) are provided
$15 entry donation ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
http://www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on
“Join Us”, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org, or write to
ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

