SONGS

NICOLAI (1810 –1849) “Nun eilt
herbei - Now Hurry Here”
from Act I of The Merry Wives of Windsor - Die
lustigen Wieber von Windsor.
Libretto by Mosenthal/Shakespeare.

He will believe me, performing I can do very well.
A bold risk is it indeed, only for fun may one
allow it herself. Happy sense and humor spices
up life and to forgive is well a joke. So for pleasure
may one lie. Real love and faithfullness stay in
the heart. Therefore full of trust, dare I to do the
deed. Happy women, yes, who know their own
advice.” http://lottelehmannleague.org/legendary-unknown/

PUCCINI (1858 –1924) “Donde Lieta
Usci – Goodbye ... No Hard Feelings”

MASSENET (1842 – 1912) “Adieu,
Notre Petite Table - Goodbye my Little
Table”

Rodolfo, a playwright, falls in love with his
neighbour Mimi, who is suffering from
tuberculosis. Rodolfo starts a fight with Mimi,
saying that Mimi has been flirting with other
men. However, the real reason he wants to
separate from Mimi is he cannot bear to watch
her die. He reveals this to Marcello, his friend, but
Mimi overhears him and, after Marcello leaves,
she comes to him and asks him to return all of
her possessions to her former room.

from Act III of La Bohème
Libretto by Giacosa
Synopsis:

Synopsis:
Two married ladies, Frau Fluth and Frau Reich,
discover that they both received love letters from
the impoverished nobleman Falstaff at the same
time. They decide to teach him a lesson and
withdraw to hatch a plan.

from Act II of Manon
Libretto by Meilhac

Translation:
Synopsis:
“Now hurry here, jokes, bright humour, the
greatest pranks, cunning and bravado.
Nothing is too wicked, if it serves to punish men
without pity. That is a group, so awful, that one
cannot complain enough about them. Before all
others that fat glutton [Falstaff], who wants to
seduce us. Ha ha ha ha! He should pay the
penalty. But when he comes, how will I have to
behave? What will I say? Stop! I already know!

Manon has been told by a nobleman that her
lover Des Grieux will soon be kidnapped by his
father's men in order to get him away from her.
She knows that the happy days they have spent
in Des Grieux's apartment will soon be at an end
and takes the opportunity to bid adieu to the
table at which she and her love ate many meals
together. http://www.aria-

http://www.aria-database.com/search.php?individualAria=35

LOEWE (1901 – 1988) “I could have
danced all night”
from My Fair Lady
Libretto by Lerner/Shaw

database.com/search.php?individualAria=610

Synopsis:
Seducer! Why do you set a trap for a virtuous
spouse? Why? Seducer! The outrage will never
subside. No, never, my anger must be your
punishment. However, a woman's heart is weak.
You complain so pathetically about your pain.
You sigh, my heart becomes weak. No longer can
I be cruel, and I confess it, shamefully blushing,
to you, my knight. I love you. I love you. Ha ha
ha ha.

The musical's heroine, Eliza Doolittle, expresses
her exhilaration and excitement after an
impromptu dance with her tutor, Henry Higgins in the small hours of the morning. In a
counterpoint during the second of three rounds,
two maids and the housekeeper, Mrs. Pearce,
urge Eliza to go to bed, but she ignores them.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_Could_Have_Danced_All_Night

