Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— CONCERT —
4pm Sunday 1 March 2020
Kirribilli Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.thekirribillicentre.org tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
SHOSTAKOVICH Five Pieces for Two Violins and Piano
(1) Prelude (2) Gavotte
(3) Elegy (4) Waltz (5) Polka
Violin Steve Harvey Violin Jenny Mee
Piano Stewart Wallace

BORODIN String Quartet No.2 in D major
(1) Allegro moderato (2) Scherzo (3) Nocturne (4) Finale
Violin Sheila Fitzpatrick Violin Marian Arnold
Viola Daniel Morris Cello Nicole McVicar
— INTERVAL —

BRAHMS Piano Quintet in F minor Opus 34

- Notes SHOSTAKOVICH (1906–1975) Five Pieces for Two Violins and Piano
These five pieces were collected and arranged for two violins and piano by a friend and assistant
of Shostakovitch (Lev Atovmyan) with the composers permission. The pieces were assembled
by 1970. The parts can also be played by two violas.
The Prelude is derived from Shostakovich's music for the film The Gadfly. The Gavotte (a
French courtly dance) and Elegy (melancholy song) are both taken from Shostakovich's
incidental music the play The Human Comedy. The source of the Waltz remains a mystery. The
final movement the Polka originated in the 1935 comedy-ballet called The Limpid Stream.
BORODIN (1833-1877) String Quartet No.2 in D major (1881)
Although most well known as a Romantic composer, Borodin was a doctor and chemist by
profession, composing music only in his spare time. He also played the cello and was a keen
chamber music player. Borodin was one of the Mighty Handful – a group of prominent 19 th
century composers who often collaborated together to create a distinct Russian sound. The other
four included Balakirev, Cui, Mussorgsky, and Rimsky-Korsakov.
Borodin's second string quartet was dedicated to his wife Ekaterina – it is thought to be 20 th
wedding anniversary gift. The quartet has long melodic lines with a richness of colours and
rhythms. The first movement opens with a melodic line on the cello and highlights Borodin's
songfulness – all the thematic material is lyrical and a wonderful sense of affection permeates
the movement.
The Scherzo alternates between an excitable, playful descending motive and a lyrical dance.
Borodin explained the movement as an attempt 'to conjure up an impression of a light hearted
evening spent in one of the suburban pleasure gardens of St Petersburg'.
The Nocturne is the most well known of the four movements. The movement opens with a
beautiful cello melody over a syncopated accompaniment which is then passed to the first violin.
The faster middle section contains playful dialoguing on rising scales, which enlivens the
relaxed mood, before returning to the mood of the first theme.
The Finale opens with a dialogue between the two violins, answered by the cello and viola. The
music soon flourishes into a bright and vivacious canon, demonstrating Borodin's mastery of
counterpoint (two independent voices moving together).
BRAHMS (1833-1897) Piano Quintet in F minor Opus 34

(1) Allegro non troppo (2) Andante, up poco adagio (3) Scherzo
(4) Finale
Violin Steve Harvey Violin Jenny Mee
Viola Adrian McDonald
Cello Nicole McVicar
Piano Stewart Wallace
— REFRESHMENTS —

The Piano Quintet is in fact the third version of this work. It started out in 1862 as a string
quintet (with two cellos) but Brahms was never entirely happy with it and it was never
published. In 1864, he re-worked it as a version for two pianos that clearly gave him some
satisfaction and he performed it a number of times. It seems to be around this time that the idea
of a further revision started to form. After Clara Schumann played the piece Clara wrote to
Brahms - “[the sonata] is masterly from every point of view, but - it is not a sonata, but a work
whose ideas you might - you must - scatter over an entire orchestra......Levi......said the same
thing, very decidedly, without my having said a word....Please, for this once take my advice and
recast it”. Despite Clara’s deprecatory “for this once”, Brahms was more than likely to take her
advice and, although resisting the request to employ an orchestra, he re-wrote the work one more

time as a piano quintet - the form in which it is most often heard and a piece regarded by some
as the culmination of Brahms’s early chamber music.
The opening movement begins sternly and a little portentously and soon explodes in a flurry of
broken chords on the piano. The first theme is a variation on the opening bars. After some
development, it is followed by the first of a number of startling key changes. The development
begins quietly but builds to a vociferous statement. The recapitulation is signalled by the piano’s
broken chords from the opening. A more serene mood is explored before the broken chords
return again in a brief and thunderous coda.
The second movement is a complete contrast to the first movement – a lilting melody that seems
able to perpetuate itself almost indefinitely but it eventually gives way to a slightly more agitated
passage. The opening melody returns but this time builds steadily to a passionate climax which
subsides in slow stages to the movement’s pianissimo close.
The Scherzo (literally means 'jest') is surely one of the most exhilarating movements in the
chamber music repertoire. The syncopated opening is pregnant with possibilities but the bold
theme which follows this remains a surprising masterstroke. The syncopated material returns,
and builds to a climax followed by an ingenious fugato (in the style of a fugue) passage, before
the return of the main theme. The music builds to an even more dramatic peak, followed by the
trio. The trio is quintessential Brahms - with a surging theme in 6/8 timing. It ends quietly and
with increasingly ambiguous rhythm that leads back to the opening bars and the repeat of the
Scherzo.
The final movement opens darkly and threateningly - the almost jolly theme that follows is a
surprise when it arrives. A fiery passage follows leading to material which pokes rhythmic and
melodic fun at the main theme before it returns in its original form. The music then moves to a
Presto in 6/8 introducing a coda so long that it feels like an entire additional section. A
downward-rushing unison scale brings the music back the f minor and, in a manner of which
Brahms was a peerless master, continues to build and vary until the work ends almost abruptly as
if from sheer creative exhaustion.

concert organiser Nicole McVicar
light refreshments (wine juice and savouries)
$15 entry donation ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on “Join Us”, or
email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org, or write to ACMS Membership Secretary, PO
Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
4 pm Sunday 1 March 2020

