Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

— CONCERT —
Kirribilli Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.thekirribillicentre.org
tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
BEETHOVEN Sonata No.9 in A Op 47 (“Kreutzer”)
(1) Adagio sostenuto - Presto (2) Andante con Variazioni
(3) Presto
violin Tracey Tsang piano Ben Chan
Duration 25’

The première concert was well attended with several royal attendees in the audience. At
one point, Bridgetower inserted an improvised flourish, whereupon Beethoven left the
piano and said to him, “Once again, my dear boy”. However, Beethoven later rededicated the work to Kreutzer after Bridgetower had made a tactless comment about
one of Beethoven’s friends, although Kreutzer refused to perform it because the première
had already been given and described the work as “outrageously unintelligible”.

“Outrageous” is a good description, because the sonata is characterised by youthful
ardour. The slow introduction in A major portends a work on a grand scale which is
followed by a tempestuous presto in A minor, perhaps reflecting the agitation that the
Viennese must have felt knowing that Napoleon was starting a war of conquest. A
momentary halt of the driving momentum allows a chorale-like second theme recalling
the mood of the slow introduction.

The finale is a brilliant whirling movement based on the rhythm of the fast Italian dance
the tarantella. Leading a merry chase through quasi-fugal terrain, “hunting” calls,

TELEMANN Concerto for Two Violas in G major TWV 52
(1) Lent (2) Gai (3) Large (4) Vif
viola Heather Powrie viola Emily Powrie organ Mervyn Olds

breakneck “spinning” passages, and witty restarts, Beethoven ingeniously unfurls a
sonata-rondo that pauses only to regain momentum.

Duration 10’

Georg Philipp TELEMANN (1681-1767) Concerto for Two Violas in G major
TWV 52

BEETHOVEN String Quartet in F major Op. 18 No. 1

Born before and living beyond JS Bach, Telemann was considered more popular than the

(1) Allegro con brio (2) Adagio affettuoso ed appassionato
(3) Scherzo (4) Allegro
violin Sheila Fitzpatrick violin Jenny Allison
viola Lynn Dalgarno cello Anne Stevens

more famous contemporaries as seen today, Bach and Handel, and was attributed with

Duration 28’

the idea of music being the intellectual property of the composer. Indeed, Bach only was
given his tenure at Leipzig after Telemann indicated he was not interested, preferring a
post in Hamburg. Telemann was the godfather of Carl Philipp Emmanuel Bach. His
financial problems were apparently due to his second wife’s gambling obsession
associated with their visit to Paris 1737-8. This may have influenced his output of over

— REFRESHMENTS —
BEETHOVEN (1770–1827) Sonata No. 9 in A major Op 47 (“Kreutzer”)

3000 compositions, rivalling that of JSB. He is credited with the first work with a viola
solo, a concerto written circa 1718, and wrote this double viola concerto following the
visit to Paris. Both are in church sonata form of slow-fast-slow-fast. The HEMM

The Beethoven Sonata for Violin and Piano No 9 in A Major Op 47 was originally

ensemble, formed during the most recent Covid lockdown, are delighted and privileged

dedicated to the violin virtuoso George Bridgetower. When the 25 year-old George met the

to be making their debut performance for you today.

33 year-old Beethoven in 1803, they became friends and Beethoven dedicated his Sonata
No. 9 to him.

BEETHOVEN (1770-1827) String Quartet in F major

Op 18 No. 1

Composed between 1798 and 1800 and published in 1801, the six quartets
comprising Op. 18 were Beethoven’s first ventures into works which had been
pioneered first by Haydn, closely followed by Mozart. The F major was placed
first in the set although it was actually the second quartet that Beethoven
composed. The first movement, Allegro con brio, opens in the typical Viennese
style, the motif weaving in and out of the movement. One of the highlights of
this movement is the “fully mature and independent cello part” which had been
slowly established by Haydn and Mozart. The second movement, Adagio
affettuoso ed appassionato, is in direct contrast to the first. It is the longest
and filled with emotional intensity. It has been suggested that Beethoven was
thinking of the tomb scene in Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet when he
composed this movement. It is certainly filled with gloom and pathos, with
“electric veins of agony and gaping pauses of shock, final sighs and death”. The
dance movement is in the usual form of Minuet and Trio, but renamed Scherzo
in keeping with its faster tempo and swift one count to the bar feel and the Trio
has a concertante texture with the first violin’s soaring scurrying notes above
the octave leaps of the other strings. Another motif-driven movement is the
last, Allegro, directly influenced by Mozart and the classical Viennese style.
While the motive plays a central role, this movement is “rich with a variety of
musical ideas” including the use of fugue which was to become an integral part
of Beethoven’s future quartets.

(Based on notes written by Kai Christiansen).

concert organiser Tony Tenney
Volunteer staff of the Kirribilli Centre provide
light refreshments (wine juice and savouries) and
charge $10 entry donation ($5 concession/seniors)
to cover costs and to raise funds for the Centre
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on
“Join Us”, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org, or write to
ACMS Membership Secretary, PO Box 584, Balgowlah NSW 2093

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
3.00pm Sunday 3 April 2022

