Amateur Chamber Music Society

- Notes -

http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/
TELEMANN (1681-1767) Quartet TWV43:A1

— PROGRAM —

TELEMANN Quartet TWV43:A1
Arranged for quintet by Nick Stokes
(1) Andante (2) Divertimento 1 - Vivace
(3) Divertimento 2 - Presto (4) Divertimento 3 - Allegro
flute Bruce Lane oboe Liz Nurthen clarinet Marilyn Mallory
bassoon Petrina Slaytor guitar Nick Stokes

Georg Philipp Telemann was born in Magdeburg, Germany. He was a
contemporary of Bach and Handel and one of the most prolific composers in
history.
His music incorporates French, Italian, and German national styles, and
Telemann was at times even influenced by Polish popular music. His lifetime
and output links the Baroque to the classical styles of Haydn and Mozart.
Part of his large chamber music output includes 6 concertos for oboe, 3 for
flute as well as a concerto for 2 chalumeaux and 2 bassoons, the
chalumeaux being a very early version of the clarinet.
The word ’chalumeaux' is still used today to describe the low register of the
clarinet - the register that is used for most of this arrangement.
This quartet is part of a set of 6, first published in 1733. The movements
sound to us like different dances for an 18th century party, the final one being
a gigue.
FAURE (1845-1924) Piano Quartet Op.15

FAURE Piano Quartet Op.15
(1) Allegro molto moderato (2) Scherzo Allegro vivo
(3) Adagio (4) Allegro molto
violin Jenny Allison viola Eve Salinas
cello Clara Blazer piano Ludwig Sugiri

HARRIS Divertimento
(1) Romance (2) Intermezzo
(3) Serenade (4) Burlesque
flute Bruce Lane oboe Liz Nurthen clarinet Marilyn Mallory
bassoon Petrina Slaytor piano Nick Stokes
— REFRESHMENTS —

Gabriel Fauré (1845-1924) was the student of Camille Saint-Saëns (18351921) and teacher of Maurice Ravel (1875-1937).
The idea of the First Piano Quartet Op.15 was conceived in 1876 while Fauré
was also composing the well-known Sonata for violin and piano Op.13. The
piano quartet was completed three years later. However, after a few
performances at the Société nationale de musique, Fauré decided to completely
rewrite the last movement. Jacques Durand, a famous French music
publisher, showed no interest in publishing Fauré’s piano quartet. The revised
edition with a new 4th movement was published in 1884 by Julien Hamelle.
The music was well received by the French society. Fauré often played the
piano part of this piece in chamber music performances throughout his life.
The sheet music was reprinted several times for sale due to popularity.
Fauré was then awarded the Prix Chartier by the Académie des Beaux-Arts
(Institut de France) in 1885.
Considered the true creator of French chamber music, Fauré holds a unique
and original place in the music of his time. It is distinguished by the search for
the balance of melodic lines, the homogeneity of the discourse, the simplicity in
the expression or even the respect for old modes. He was director of the Paris
Conservatoire from 1905 to 1920.
Some sections are highly chromatic, some are very espressivo. Between the two
outer Allegro movements there is a high-spirited scherzo followed by a
beautiful adagio in the character of a lament.

Harris (1955- ) Divertimento
Paul Harris is an English clarinettist, composer, author and educator. He
studied music at the Royal Academy of Music, and then music education at
the University of London. He now works in music education in the UK, as a
teacher, and an examiner and adjudicator in national events including
the Chamber Music for Schools Competition, and the BBC Young
Musician of the Year.
He has composed prolifically for developing musicians, as well as more
substantial works such as 7 concertos, a ballet and a children’s opera. Faber
music has published his ‘Buckingham’ concertos (1993-1997) No.5,
which can be found on YouTube.
Some of his compositions feature in the album ‘Clarinet Chamber
Music’ published by Clarinet Classics. He has over 600 publications to date,
such as books on clarinet technique, musical theory, his teaching method
(Simultaneous Learning) and on living with cancer (Cancer and positivity). He
has also co-authored major new biographies of Sir Malcolm Arnold,
Malcolm Williamson, and Sir Richard Rodney Bennett.
Divertimento was published in 1998 and is described by the publisher
as "a useful & tuneful work for talented players”.

concert organiser Jenny Allison
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information.

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
3 pm Sunday 16 October 2022

