- Notes -

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— PROGRAM —

KRISTOFER SPIKE West Highland Wander
violin 1 Jenny Allison violin 2 Sue Butler
viola Eve Salinas
cello Anne Stevens

KRISTOFER SPIKE (1959-) West Highland Wander
Kristofer Spike is an Australian composer/pianist now living in Chicago. Many
of his composition are inspired by his concern for environmental issues and
his love of nature and the outdoors. He has recorded five CDs of his chamber
music compositions and also had his music played regularly on ABC Classic
FM and other fine music stations over the past 15 years.
West Highland Wander is a musical memory of a walk the composer did with
his daughter in 2018 through the Scottish Highlands. The first part of the
walk is along Loch Lomond and flashes of the famous folk song of the same
name punctuate this section of the piece. The slower middle section is more
serene and expresses the restfulness of evening camps while the third section
describes the majesty of approaching Ben Nevis, the highest mountain in the
British Isles. The work has been composed for four instruments: strings, winds
or a mixture of both.

VIVALDI Winter from the Four Seasons

violin George Carrard piano Christine Edwards

— INTERVAL —

CHRISTMAS MUSIC
Boris Ord: Adam Lay Ybounden
Kathryn Rose: Advent
Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina: Canite Tuba
Luca Marenzio: Hodie Christus Natus Est
Sopranos: Sue Butler, Sophia Lauber, Glenda Woolnough
Altos: Hilary Day, Patsy Short
Tenor: Peter Nickolas
Basses: Ian Butler, Joe Wolfe

VIVALDI (1678-1741) Winter from The Four seasons
“Italian composer Antonio Vivaldi famously said, ‘There are no words, there is
only music there.’ And yet, ironically, Vivaldi’s best-known work, Le Quattro
Stagioni (‘The Four Seasons’), Op 8, Nos 1–4, is based upon a series of sonnets,
apparently written by himself. These concerti can arguably be considered
among the first truly programmatic pieces; that is, music that tells or follows a
narrative. Although Vivaldi composed in a wide range of genres, his concerti
endure as one of his greatest contributions to the Western classical canon.
Vivaldi lived and worked in Baroque Venice. He was an ordained a Catholic
priest as well as being a composer.
For nearly thirty years he taught music and composed for an orphanage in the
town, named Ospedale della Pietà. Vivaldi crafted an immense oeuvre of
concerti during this period, exploring the potential of conversations between
soloist and orchestra. Although he did not compose The Four Seasons for the
orphanage, the works were undoubtedly influenced by his compositions from
that period.
Vivaldi composed The Four Seasons between 1716 and 1725. A typical Vivaldi
concerto includes three movements, and there is a sonnet to accompany each
season. The sonnet breaks into three sections to follow the individual
movements.”
Here is the sonnet for Winter:

— REFRESHMENTS —

Allegro non molto
To tremble from cold in the icy snow,
In the harsh breath of a horrid wind;
To run, stamping one’s feet every moment,
Our teeth chattering in the extreme cold
Largo
Before the fire to pass peaceful
Contented days while the rain outside pours down.

Allegro
We tread the icy path slowly and cautiously,
for fear of tripping and falling.
Then turn abruptly, slip, crash on the ground and,
rising, hasten on across the ice lest it cracks up.
We feel the chill north winds course through the home
despite the locked and bolted doors...
this is winter, which nonetheless
brings its own delights.
Notes from a program complied by Suzanne Maslen for Seattle Symphony.

CHRISTMAS MUSIC
BORIS ORD (1897–1961) Adam Lay Ybounden is the only published
composition of Boris Ord, who was director of the choir of King’s College,
Cambridge for many years. He was largely responsible for expanding the
repertoire of the choir to the 16th century music for which it is now famous.
The text dates from about 1400 and may have been intended for use in
mystery plays.
KATHRYN ROSE (1980-) was born in Saskatchewan, Canada and now resides
in London. She has been organist at St Andrew’s Church, Leytonstone since
2010 is now studying choral composition at the University of Aberdeen. This
song is a setting of a poem by Christina Rossetti (1830-1894).
GIOVANNI PIERLUIGI DA PALESTRINA (c. 1525-1594) spent most of his life
in Rome. He was first a chorister and mastered the northern European style of
polyphony. Among others, he was mentored by Orlando di Lasso. During his
lifetime he held a number of positions as organist and choirmaster and from
1571 was at St Peter’s. He wrote hundreds of compositions including masses,
motets and madrigals. This is a setting of the first antiphon at Lauds and
Vespers for the fourth Sunday in Advent.
LUCA MARENZIO (1553–1599) is best known for his madrigals and worked in
the service of several Italian families, including the Gonzaga, Este and Medici.
He was a singer and lutenist and developed the late Renaissance style of vocal
writing. His music was highly influential and was widely known and performed
throughout Europe. The text is the antiphon to the Magnificat, sung at Vespers
on Christmas Day.

concert organiser George Carrard
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information.

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
3.00pm Sunday 4 December 2022

