Amateur Chamber Music Society
www.acms-australia.org/concerts

— CONCERT —
3 pm Sunday 07 August 2022
Kirribilli Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.thekirribillicentre.org
tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
BRAHMS Violin Sonata No 3 in D minor Op 108
(1) Allegro (2) Adagio
(3) Intermezzo (4) Finale
violin Tracey Tsang piano Ben Chan

MOZART Parto, Parto ma tu ben mio from La Clemenza di
Tito
TERENCE GREAVES A Garden of Weeds
words by Jacqueline Froom
soprano Sarah Arnold
clarinet Andrew Cousins
piano Ross McDonald
— REFRESHMENTS —

POULENC Trio for Oboe (arranged for flute), bassoon and
piano
(1) Presto (2) Andante (3) Rondo
flute Bruce Lane
bassoon Petrina Slaytor
piano Judith Maynard

- Notes JOHANNES BRAHMS (1833–1897) Sonata No. 3 in D minor
The Brahms D minor Violin Sonata no.3 was dedicated to Hans von Bülow, a
musician of gargantuan talent celebrated as both pianist and conductor and was
premiered in Budapest in 1888 with Jeno Hubay on violin and the composer at the
piano.
The sonata consists of 4 movements. In the first movement, the violin and piano
share equally the thematic material of the opening: the violin presents the principal
subject, a lyrical inspiration marked by long notes that give way to quick
neighbouring tones; the piano’s arching second theme is superbly constructed from
a two-measure motive of stepwise motion followed by a hesitant dotted-rhythm
gesture. The development section is largely occupied with a discussion of the main
theme. A full recapitulation and an ethereal coda derived from the main theme
closes this movement.
The second movement, Adagio, is one of Brahms’s most endearing creations, an
instrumental hymn of delicate emotions, touching melody, and rich harmonies. The
third movement replaces the traditional “scherzo” with an intermezzo of precisely
controlled intensity and masterful motivic development.
The sonata-form finale resumes the darkly expressive eloquence of the opening
movement with its impetuous main theme. A chordal subject initiated by the piano
provides contrast, but the unsettled mood of the first theme remains dominant
through the remainder of the movement.
W A MOZART (1756-91) Parto, Parto ma tu ben mio from La Clemenza di Tito,
libretto by Pietro Metastasio
One of Mozart’s last operas, La Clemenza di Tito (The Clemency of Titus), an opera
seria, was commissioned for the 1791 coronation of Leopold II in Prague. Antonio
Salieri was approached first but was too busy, and he declined the commission,
although he did attend the coronation. Mozart readily accepted the commission
given his fee would be twice the price of a similar opera commissioned in Vienna.
Mozart's earliest biographer Niemetschek alleged that the opera was completed in
just 18 days.
The new emperor of Rome, Tito, is much loved by the Roman people, with the
exception of Vitellia the daughter of the previous Emperor. When her attempts to
return to her rightful place on the throne through marriage are unsuccessful, Vitellia
plots Tito’s assassination and enlists the help of her young admirer, Sesto. Leading
up to Sesto’s aria, Parto, parto ma tu ben mio, the furious Vitellia has made him
promise to lead an uprising against Tito. As he leaves to fulfill his promise, Sesto
asks Vitellia to calm herself and make peace with him again. Sesto is close friends
with Tito but will do anything to gain the affections of Vitellia, so agrees to her plans.
Later in the opera he sets fire to the Capitol, intending to trap Tito inside and kill
him. The plot fails but Sesto is wracked with guilt. He admits his guilt to Tito and
faces execution. Vitellia rushes to Tito to admit her part in the plan to help save
Sesto. Tito forgives them both and the Roman people rejoice in their compassionate
and merciful Emperor.

TERENCE GREAVES (1933-2009) A Garden of Weeds
Terence “Terry” Greaves (1933-2009) was a British composer, music teacher and
examiner. He was a lecturer at the Birmingham School of Music and later Dean at
the Royal Manchester College of Music. He was also a dedicated examiner and
moderator for the ABRSM for over 40 years, writing many works as examination
pieces. A Garden of Weeds features musical interpretations of the physical and
medicinal attributes of five flowering plants.
FRANCIS POULENC (1899-1963) Trio for Oboe (arranged for Flute), Bassoon
and Piano
It wasn’t until the years after WW II that Poulenc’s composition was given the
prominence it commands today. His works were dismissed as too simple, too direct,
and too flippant to be regarded as serious.
Diaghilev’s Ballet Russe, Igor Stravinsky and the public riot after the first
performance of The Rite of Spring plunged the musical world into the 20th century.
Paris was the centre of cosmopolitan sophistication and Poulenc, a member of the
group of composers known as “Les Six” reacted accordingly.
He was a prolific composer contributing to every genre of composition… solo and duo
piano, various chamber groups, song, incidental and film music, opera and religious
works

concert organiser Tony Tenney
light refreshments (wine juice and savouries)
$15 entry donation ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. If interested, go to the website and click on
“Join Us”, or email membership.secretary@acms-australia.org

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
www.acms-australia.org

Chamber Music Concert
3 pm Sunday 07 August 2022

