Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/
— PROGRAMME —

SCHUMANN Piano Quintet in E Flat Op.44
(1) Allegro brillante
(2) In modo d’una marcia. Un poco largamente
(3) Molto vivace (4) Allegro ma non troppo
violins George Carrard and Regula Scheidegger
viola Barra Boydell

cello Clara Blazer

piano Christine Edwards
33’

KERSHAW Elephant Dances
(1) Elephants’ Cake- Walk (2)Pachyderm Polka
(3) Jumbo-Rumba (4) Jungle Stomp
(5) Tuskers’ Tarantella
bassoon Petrina Slaytor

piano Judith Maynard

SCHUMANN (1810–1856) Piano Quintet Op.44
Robert Schumann composed this piano quintet in 1842 when he was 32
years old. The work revolutionised the musical character of the piano quintet
and established it as a quintessentially Romantic genre.

Noted for its "extroverted, exuberant" character, the quintet is considered
one of Schumann’s finest compositions and a major work of nineteenthcentury chamber music.

Robert dedicated the quintet to his wife, the great pianist Clara Schumann.
She was due to perform the piano part for the first private performance of the
quintet on 6 December 1842. However, she fell ill and Mendelssohn stepped
in, sight-reading the "fiendish" piano part. Mendelssohn's suggestions to
Schumann after this performance led the composer to make revisions to the
inner movements.

Clara did play the piano part at the first public performance of the piano
quintet on 8 January 1843, at the Leipzig Gewandhaus. She pronounced the
work "splendid, full of vigour and freshness”, and often performed the work
throughout her life.

10’

RACHMANINOFF Sonata for Cello and Piano in G minor,
Op.19
(3) Andante (4) Allegro mosso
cello Sharon Mannl

piano Neil Semmler
20’

— REFRESHMENTS —

Schumann's choice to pair the piano with a standard string quartet reflects
the changing technical capabilities and cultural importance of these
instruments. Bringing the piano and string quartet together, the quintet
takes full advantage of the expressive possibilities of these forces in
combination, alternating conversational passages between the five
instruments with concertante passages in which the combined forces of the
strings are massed against the piano. At a time when chamber music was
moving out of the salon and into public concert halls, Schumann reimagines
the piano quintet as a musical genre "suspended between private and public
spheres" alternating between "quasi-symphonic and more properly chamberlike elements."

KERSHAW (1946-) Six Elephant Dances

The Kirribilli Centre

Dr Richard Kershaw is a cellist and pianist, but composed a great deal of
music for wind instruments to cater for students of Sherbourne School in
Dorset (founded 705 AD). Petrina and Judith will play five of the Elephant
Dances.

www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

RACHMANINOFF (1873–1943) Sonata for Cello and Piano in G
minor, Op.19

Chamber Music Concert

In the wake of the successful completion of his Second Piano Concerto,
Sergei Rachmaninov spent the summer of 1901 on the family’s country estate
several days’ travel to the south of Moscow. On his return to Moscow in
autumn he began to work on the sonata, the performance of which was
already planned for December with the composer at the piano.

3 pm Sunday 3 September 2023

By mid-November Sergei was crying off social engagements, complaining
that “my work’s going badly, and there’s not much time left. I’m
depressed…” Annotations on the original score shows that he revised the
ending immediately after the first performance. By the following January, he
was hard at work on the final proofs of the piece: “I’ve found almost no
mistakes”. In later years Rachmaninov recalled “I felt that [psychiatrist and
hypnotherapist] Dr Dahl’s treatment had strengthened my nervous system to
a miraculous degree … The joy of creating lasted the next two years, and I
wrote a number of large and small pieces including the Sonata for Cello…”

concert organiser George Carrard
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors)
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information.

