Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— CONCERT —
3pm Sunday 2 July 2023 (first Sunday in July)
Kirribilli Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.thekirribillicentre.org
tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
BEETHOVEN 7 Variations on 'Bei Männern, welche
Liebe fühlen', WoO 46
Thema & 7 variations
cello Lye-Lin Ho piano Ludwig Sugiri

- Notes Ludwig van BEETHOVEN (1770-1827) 7 Variations on 'Bei Männern,
welche Liebe fühlen', WoO 46
Bei Männern is a lovely duet of Mozart's opera by Princess Pamina and the
birdcatcher Papageno. They praise of the power of love between husband and
wife, and the universal joy of love; "Love today and love tomorrow keep nature's
circle turning true."
Beethoven first went to Vienna in 1787 under the patronage of the Cologne
Elector Maximilian Franz (a son of the Empress Maria Theresia, brother of the
future Emperor Joseph II). Beethoven greatly admired Mozart's music and
considered him a musical genius, but the two composers never had the
opportunity to meet in person.
Beethoven especially admired Mozart's setting of the text and his adeptness at
relating words to music. Beethoven wrote a total of four sets of variations on
arias from Mozart's operas. The variations on "Bei Männern, welche Liebe
fühlen" were composed shortly after a performance of The Magic Flute in the
Vienna Hoftheater at the beginning of 1801. As in the opera itself - the original
is a duet between Pamina and Papageno - Beethoven endeavours to retain the
character of the piece: the cello and piano are partners in the duet.

10’

BRAHMS Sonata for piano and violin
Op. 78 in G major
(1) Vivace ma non troppo (2) Adagio (3) Allegro molto moderato
violin Jenny Allison piano Ludwig Sugiri
30’

POULENC Trio pour piano, hautbois et bassoon
(1) Lento-Presto (2) Andante con moto (3) Très vif
oboe Lewis Cornwell bassoon Chris Bertram
piano Ludwig Sugiri
12’

— REFRESHMENTS —

Johannes BRAHMS (1833-1897) Sonata for piano and violin Op. 78 in G
(1878)
This sonata is one of the most lyrical compositions among all of Brahms’s
instrumental works. It opens with the enchanting and lyrical theme with its
soaring melodies and rich harmonies. The violin and piano engage in a musical
dialogue, intertwining their voices in a delightful interplay of emotions. Brahms'
characteristic blend of classical form and romantic expression is evident
throughout this movement, creating a captivating atmosphere that takes the
listeners on a profound musical journey. As in many of Brahms’ compositions,
the movements are intimately interrelated. A three-note motto figure is common
to all three movements. A mood of gentle nostalgia permeates the first
movement, Vivace ma non troppo, and sets the tone and character for the entire
sonata.
The second movement is a solemn and dramatic Adagio. The third, a rondo,
Allegro molto moderato, contains an episode in which Brahms brings back the
lovely slow movement theme.

Francis POULENC (1899-1963) Trio pour piano, hautbois et bassoon FP43
Francis Poulenc was a prominent figure in 20th-century music, and his
compositions often defied conventions and blurred the boundaries between
genres. As a member of the group of composers known as Les Six, Poulenc
sought to create music that was accessible and infused with a sense of lightness
and charm. During Poulenc's lifetime, the reception of his music was met with
a mixture of admiration, controversy, and evolving appreciation.
Initially, some critics and audiences found Poulenc's music to be unconventional
and even provocative. His use of dissonance and his rejection of traditional
harmonic structures challenged the established norms of classical music at the
time. However, Poulenc also had a significant number of supporters who
admired his unique style and recognized the emotional depth and sincerity in
his compositions.
The trio was composed between 1924 and 1926. It was dedicated to Manuel de
Falla, the great Spanish nationalist composer, “to prove to him for better or for
worse my tender admiration.”
The first movement starts with a short opera-like recitative, the piano opening
emphatically with the bassoon and oboe setting the mood. This is followed by an
exuberant presto, mainly in the style of Italian operatic comedy but with a tender
middle section.
The second movement, andante con moto, is an extended song, rising to some
intensity toward the middle. The finale, très vif, is a rondo, with a slightly
sardonic edge and an unexpected ending.

concert organiser: Ludwig Sugiri
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors)
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information.

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
3 pm Sunday 2 July 2023

