Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/
— PROGRAM —

Grundman, C – Caprice for Clarinet
Grounod, C – Funeral March of a Marionette
Burns, R – Bijou
Kabalevsky, D – Sonatina in C Major
Corelli, A – Gigue
Lennon, J & McCartney, P – Yesterday
Handel, G – Arrival of the Queen of Sheba
Mancini, H – The Pink Panther
Soprano B♭ Clarinets | Carolyn LaMotte, David LaMotte,
Christine Young
Bass Clarinet | Geoff Kennedy

- Notes EDVARD GRIEG (1843-1907), Violin and Piano Sonata no.3 in C minor
Op.45
Throughout his career, Norwegian composer Edvard Grieg wrote three violin
sonatas. The first two were written relatively quickly, but the third took him
much longer to piece together. Completed at the end of 1886, Grieg’s Violin
Sonata No.3 has remained, by far, his most popular work for the instrument.
This work was also one of Grieg’s most treasured works, with him even
premiering the work (on piano) with violinist Adolph Brodsky in Leipzig. The
sonata is also known for being a marker in Grieg’s style, with it being the last
work he composed using the traditional sonata form structure.
The first movement, Allegro molto ed appassionato opens with dramatic
opening flourishes in the violin, to the ascending melody that follows, which
reflects an assessment by an anonymous commentator during its publication
process, “Bold and Exuberant, just the way I like it”. The quietly delicate
second theme distinctly contrasts the first, and in the central development, the
flourishes are serenely extended over rippling piano figuration, building to a
tremendous climax.

30’

GRIEG, Violin & Piano Sonata no.3 in C minor, Op.45
(1) Allegro molto ed appassionato
(2) Allegretto espressivo alla Romanza
(3) Finale - Allegro animato
Violin | Tracey Tsang Piano | Ben Chan
23’

— INTERVAL —

The second movement begins with an extended piano solo, followed by the
violin in a tender melody embedded in harmonic richness. The contrasting
lively centre of the movement is influenced by Norwegian folk dance themes,
after which the opening melody returns soaring in the violin’s upper register.
The final movement, Allegro animato, features alternation of melodic fragments
over churning piano figuration, surging to striking violin double stops. A slower
cantabile section builds to yet another loud highpoint, and both moods are
heard again, in stormier incarnations, before the movement comes to a fiery
conclusion as the tempo picks up in the coda. The last few bars brings the
instruments together for one last time to play the final powerful chords.

SCHUMANN Piano Quintet in E Flat Op.44
ROBERT SCHUMANN (1810–1856) Piano Quintet in E Flat Op.44

(1) Allegro brillante (2) In modo d’una marcia. Un poco largamente
(3) Molto vivace (4) Allegro ma non troppo
Violins | George Carrard, Regula Scheidegger
Viola | Barra Boydell
Cello | Clara Blazer
Piano | Christine Edwards
35’

— REFRESHMENTS —

The Piano Quintet in E flat major Op. 44, by Robert Schumann was composed
in 1842 and received its first public performance the following year. Noted for
its "extroverted, exuberant" character, Schumann's piano quintet is considered
one of his finest compositions and a major work of nineteenthcentury chamber music. Composed for piano and string quartet, the work
revolutionised the instrumentation and musical character of the piano quintet
and established it as a quintessentially Romantic genre.
Schumann dedicated the piano quintet to his wife, the great pianist Clara
Schumann. She was due to perform the piano part for the first private
performance of the quintet on 6 December 1842. However, she fell ill and
Mendelssohn stepped in, sight-reading the "fiendish" piano

part. Mendelssohn's suggestions to Schumann after this performance led the
composer to make revisions to the inner movements.
Clara Schumann did play the piano part at the first public performance of the
piano quintet on 8 January 1843, at the Leipzig Gewandhaus. Clara
pronounced the work "splendid, full of vigour and freshness”. She often
performed the work throughout her life.
The quintet is scored for piano and string quartet. Schumann's choice to pair
the piano with a standard string quartet lineup reflects the changing technical
capabilities and cultural importance, respectively, of these instruments.
Bringing the piano and string quartet together, Schumann's Piano Quintet
takes full advantage of the expressive possibilities of these forces in
combination, alternating conversational passages between the five instruments
with concertante passages in which the combined forces of the strings are
massed against the piano. At a time when chamber music was moving out of
the salon and into public concert halls, Schumann reimagines the piano
quintet as a musical genre "suspended between private and public spheres"
alternating between "quasi-symphonic and more properly chamber-like
elements."

concert organiser Ben Chan
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors)
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information.

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
Sunday 07 May 2023 | 3:00pm

