Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— PROGRAM —
PIAZZOLLA Tangos for Piano Trio
Primavera Portena, Oblivion, Libertango
violin Tassia Kolesnikow cello Anne Stevens piano Patsy Short

JACOB GADE A tango for Piano Trio and tenor
Jealousy
tenor Michael Riddiford

SAINT-SAENS Violin Sonata No.1 in D minor Op.75
(1) Allegro agitato (2) Adagio
(3) Allegro moderato (4) Allegro molto
violin Tracy Tsang piano Ben Chan

CHRISTMAS MUSIC
Arbeau/Wood: Ding Dong! Merrily on High
Michael Praetorius (1571-1621): Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland
Cristόbal de Morales (c. 1500-1553): Puer natus est nobis
Traditional German: Quem pastores
William Byrd (c. 1540-1623): Vidimus Stellam ejus in Oriente
Sopranos: Miriam Blatt, Sue Butler, Glenda Woolnough
Altos: Hilary Day, Patsy Short
Tenor: Pat Fernandez
Basses: Ian Butler, Joe Wolfe
— REFRESHMENTS —

concert organiser Sue Butler
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information

ASTOR PANTALEON PIAZZOLLA (1921-1992) Tangos for Piano Trio,
arranged by Jose Bragato
Astor Pantaleon Piazzolla was an Argentine tango composer, bandoneon player
and arranger. He was the son of Italian immigrant parents and was born in
Mar del Plata, Argentina but grew up in Greenwich Village New York, the family
having moved there in1925. He began playing bandoneon at the age of 9. He
learned to play Bach on his bandoneon and later played in tango orchestras as
well as forming his own groups where he played his own compositions in which
he incorporated ideas inspired by the music of Stravinsky, Bartok, Ravel,
Nadia Boulanger amongst others. He also composed music for tango orchestra,
films, an operetta Maria de Buenos Aires and Le Grand tango for cello and
piano, which was premiered by Rostropovich in 1990.
Piazzolla created a new sound, similar to chamber music, with jazz-like
improvisations, extended harmonies and dissonance, counterpoint and
without a singer. It was named nuevo tango. His approach did not endear him
to the traditionalists but he won favour in Europe and North America, as well
as with some politically liberal elements of Argentine society as he was a
virtuoso bandoneonist and has been described as the world’s foremost
composer of Tango.
Primavera Portena which we are playing today is part of his composition
Cuatro Estaciones Portenas Four Seasons of Buenos Aires, recorded in 1970;
Libertango in 1974 and Oblivion in 1982(written for the film Enrico 1V)
JACOB GADE (1879-1963) A tango for Piano Trio and tenor
Jacob Thune Hansen Gade was a Danish violinist and composer. He wrote
mostly orchestral popular music and is today remembered for a single tune
Jalousie. He came from a musical family and made his musical debut at the
age of 9 as a trumpeter.
He led orchestras, accompanied silent films in the cinema and performed as a
solo violinist. Jalousie was a world wide hit, performed for the first time at the
premiere of American movie Don Q, Son of Zorro. Although Jalousie was
originally an instrumental composition, lyrics were written in many countries
according to preference and commercial taste. The lyrics to today’s
performance of Jealousy were written by British poet Winifred May (Patricia
Strong).
CAMILLE SAINT-SAENS (1835-1921) Violin Sonata No.1 in D minor, Op.75
Camille Saint-Saëns' Violin Sonata No. 1 in D minor, Op. 75, composed in
1885, is a striking work that showcases the composer's melodic brilliance and
structural ingenuity. This sonata is the first of two that Saint-Saëns wrote for
violin and piano.
The opening movement, marked Allegro agitato, has the violin and piano
engaging in a compelling and darkly passionate dialogue, exploring both
virtuosic and lyrical elements.
The second movement, marked Adagio, provides a stark contrast, with the
violin singing with emotive lyricism, accompanied by the piano in a delicate
interplay. This movement allows for introspection and contemplation, creating
a lyrical oasis within the sonata. The third movement, marked Allegretto
moderato, brings a dance-like quality to the work. The lively rhythm and
playful motifs contribute to a sense of exuberance. Saint-Saëns showcases his
penchant for rhythmic vitality and thematic interplay.

The finale, marked Allegro molto, brings the sonata to a thrilling conclusion. It
is a tour de force of technical brilliance and energy. The violin and piano
engage in rhythmic vitality and thematic interplay.

The Kirribilli Centre

Arbeau/Wood Ding, Dong Merrily on High

www.thekirribillicentre.org

This tune is from Thoinot Arbeau's collection Orchesographie of 1588. The
words are by George Woodward and the song was published in the Cambridge
Carol Book of 1924. Woodward was interested in bell-ringing and this shows in
his text.
Michael Praetorius (1571 - 1621) Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland
The Lutheran chorale Nun komm, der Heiden Heiland was written in 1524 to
words by Martin Luther, based on Veni redemptor gentium by Ambrose. The
hymn has been used on the first Sunday in Advent for centuries and the
chorale was used by many Lutheran composers. This setting is No 52 in Praetorius' collection Musae Sionae and is for four voices.
Nun komm der Heiden Heiland,
der Jungfrauen Kind erkannt,
daß sich wunder alle Welt,
Gott solch Geburt ihm bestellt.

Now come, Saviour of the heathen,
recognized as the Virgin's Child,
so that the world marvels
that God ordained such a birth for
Him.

Cri όbal de Morales (c1500 - 1553) Puer natus e nobis
Born in Seville, Morales became a singer in the Papal choir in Rome by 1535.
Ten years later he returned to Spain and held several positions. This 3 part
motet is a setting of the introit for Christmas Day.
Puer natus est nobis et filius datus
est nobis.
Gloria in excelsis Deo et in terra pax
hominibus bonae voluntatis. Alleluia.
Verbum caro factum est et habitavit
in nobis. Alleluia.

A child is born to us, a son is given to
us,
Glory be to God in the highest and on
earth
peace to men of good will, Alleluia.
The word was made flesh and dwelt
among us. Alleluia.
(Translation: Mick Swithinbank,
cpdl.org)

Traditional Quem Pastores
This song is taken from the 14th century Hoenfurth Manuscript. The tune is a
16th century German melody from Breslau. The English words are by Imogen
Holst.
William Byrd (c1540 - 1623) Vidimus Stellar
This setting of the Communion motet for Epiphany was published in Byrd's
Gradualia of 1607.
We have seen his star in the East
and are come with gifts to adore the
Lord.

st

s

Vidimus stellam ejus in Oriente, et
venimus cum muneribus adorare
Dominum.

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
3 pm Sunday 03 December 2023

