- Notes -

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— A CONCERT OF WOMEN’S MUSIC—

CLARA SCHUMANN (1819-1896) Two Romances for Violin and Piano
Op.22 (1853)

3pm Sunday 5 March 2023
Kirribilli Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli

These are Clara’s most popular pieces, and for good reason. They are compact,
musically coherent and, above all, lyrical. She composed them for herself to
perform with her friend, violinist Joseph Joachim (who introduced her to
Brahms), and together they played them many times in concert.

— PROGRAM —

LOUISE FARRENC (1804-1875) Trio in E minor for Flute, Cello and Piano
Op. 45 (1862)

CLARA SCHUMANN Two Romances for Violin and
Piano Op.22

Louise Farrenc composed this trio during 1861-2 and is her last chamber
work. A short fanfare, Allegro deciso, leads to the attractive and dramatic main
movement, Più moderato ed espressivo. The second movement Andante is
followed by a brilliantly conceived but restless Scherzo vivace. The last
movement is a superb finale, marked Presto.

(1) Andante Molto (2) Leidenschaftlich Schnell
violin Miriam Blatt piano Beatrice Kuyumgian-Rankin

LOUISE FARRENC Trio for Flute, Cello and Piano
Op.45
(1) Allegro deciso – Piu moderato ed espressivo (2) Andante
(3) Scherzo - vivace (4) Presto
flute Beate Birr cello Therese Underwood piano Ludwig Sugiri
— INTERVAL —

CLARA SCHUMANN Two Songs
Mein Stern (My star)
Liebst du um Schönheit (If you love for beauty) Op.12 No.4
soprano Miriam Blatt piano Beatrice Kuyumgian-Rankin

CLARA SCHUMANN Piano Trio Op.17
(1) Allegro moderato (2) Scherzo Tempo di Menuetto & Trio
(3) Andante (4) Allegretto
violin Miriam Blatt cello Clara Blazer piano Patsy Short
— REFRESHMENTS —

CLARA SCHUMANN (1819-1896) Two Songs (1841,1846)
Even in her teenage years, Clara had a firm command of compositional
material, and it is clear from her early piano pieces that she had studied the
works of Chopin and Mendelssohn. Her accelerated maturity was in part the
result of the extended tours she undertook with her father when she was a
child. In the late 1830s, Clara began study with Robert Schumann. Working
with a new teacher, plus the natural growth in her musical maturity, led to a
more subtle form of expression in her music
CLARA SCHUMANN (1819-1896) Piano Trio in G Minor, Op. 17 (1846)
Of all her compositions, this substantial chamber work (a performance runs
approximately 30 minutes) invites the most speculation about all the great
music Clara could have written if her circumstances had been different.
Highlights include the deft fugal treatment of the main theme of the final
movement and the gorgeous, plaintive melody of the Andante as it’s passed
among the three instruments.

Translations of Song Lyrics
O STAR OF MINE (MEIN STERN) [1846]
O star of mine, I gladly watch,
When still in ocean the sun is sinking,
Your golden eye winks with faithful comfort
In my dark night!
O star of mine, from distance far,
You are a herald of loving greetings,
O let your beams give me thirsty kisses
In yearning night!
O star of mine, do tarry long,
And smiling travel on starlight’s feathers,
In dreams appear as my friend’s bright angel
In his dark night
IF YOU LOVE FOR BEAUTY ( LIEBST DU UM SCHONHEIT) [1841]
If you love for beauty,
Oh do not love me!
Love the sun,
It has gold hair!
If you love for youth,
Oh do not love me!
Love the spring-time
That is young each year!
If you love for wealth,
Oh do not love me!
Love the mermaid,
[Who] 1 has many limpid pearls!
If you love for love,
Oh yes, love me!
Love me forever;
I will love you forevermore!

concert organiser Patsy Short
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information.

The Kirribilli Centre
www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Chamber Music Concert
3 pm Sunday 05 March 2023

