Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— BALMAIN —
Vivaldi Concerto in A minor for Two Violins RV522
(1) Allegro (2) Larghetto Spiritoso (3) Allegro

Cassadó Cello Sonata in A minor
(1) Lento ma non troppo, Allegro (2) Aragonesa: Presto ma non troppo (tempo
comodo) (3) Saeta: Grave (4) Paso = doble

Ravel Piece in the Form of a Habanera
Four Pieces - Arranged for String Quartet
Weidong MENG: We Sing the Same Song
Tchaikovsky: The Song of Andante
Australian folk song: Click Go The Shears
Huanzhi Li: The First Song of Spring

Antonio Vivaldi (1678 – 1741): Concerto in A minor for Two Violins RV522
(1) Allegro (2) Larghetto Spiritoso (3) Allegro
Violins: Regula Scheidegger, George Carrard; Piano: Christine Edwards
Vivaldi was born 1678 in the republic of Venice. Aged 11 he played alongside his father in the
orchestra of San Marco Basilica. At 18 he was ordained as a priest and, in the same year, appointed
violin teacher at Del Pietà Orphanage. Aged 24 he stood in for the head music teacher (who was away)
and was congratulated by the visiting king of Norway and Denmark, to whom he dedicated his L’estro
Harmonico Op 3 (The Harmonic Inspiration, published in Amsterdam two years later) a set of 12
concertos for stringed instruments; this work was a landmark in the development of the concerto form
and influenced composers throughout Europe.
Today we will hear the Concerto for Two Violins in A minor RV522. Bach, who was seven years
younger than Vivaldi, transcribed many of Vivaldi’s concerti for various instrumental combinations,
including RV522 as a piece for solo organ BWV593. Transcribing would have been Bach’s way of
learning from Vivaldi. Bach’s famous D-minor Concerto for Two Violins owes something to Vivaldi’s
influence and goes a step further. In his lifetime, Vivaldi’s A-minor double concerto was popular
throughout Europe, as were many of his other compositions.
The popularity of his music dwindled after his death; his music faded into obscurity during the
Classical and Romantic periods and was rediscovered in the 20th century.
Four Pieces Arranged for String Quartet
Violin 1: Zhenquan Hua; Violin 2: Pansy Lin; Viola: James Dong; Cello: Yi Ding

— KIRRIBILLI —
Chopin: Cello Sonata Op. 65
(1) Allegro Moderato (3) Largo

Vivaldi: Concerto in A minor for Two Violins RV522
(1) Allegro (2) Larghetto Spiritoso (3) Allegro
INTERVAL (10 minutes)

Cassadó: Cello Sonata in A minor
(1) Lento ma non troppo, Allegro (2) Aragonesa: Presto ma non troppo (tempo
comodo) (3) Saeta: Grave (4) Paso = doble
— REFRESHMENTS (KIRRIBILLI ONLY) —

Weidong MENG (Melody); Zhe CHEN (words): We Sing the Same Song (arr: Hongde ZHOU)
"We Sing the Same Song" was written by Zhe CHEN (words) and Weidong MENG (tune) in mainland
China in 1990. It quickly became one of the most popular songs in the nation and it was later arranged
by Mr Hongde ZHOU as a string quartet
Tchaikovsky String Quartet No.1 in D major Op.11. II Andante
Composed by Tchaikovsky in February 1871, the String Quartet was premiered in Moscow in March
1871 by four members of the Russian Musical Society. The famous melancholic second movement was
based on a folk song the composer heard at his sister Aleksandra Davydov's family house at Kamenka
in Ukraina.
Australian folk song: Click Go The Shears (arr: Hong-de Zhou)
In 1973, when Gough Whitlam, the then Australian Prime Minister, visited the People’s Republic of
China, a military band played "Click Go the Shears" as Whitlam stepped off his aircraft at Beijing
Airport. It has become a popular piece of music played at family/friend parties & local concerts in
China for decades.
Huanzhi Li: The First Song of Spring (Spring Festival Overture)
This Suite (Chinese: 春節組曲; pinyin: Chūnjié Zǔqǔ) is a Chinese orchestral work composed by Li
Huanzhi (李焕之) between 1955 and 1956, depicting the scene when folks in Shanbei region were
celebrating the Chinese New Year (Spring Festival). The tune is widely heard primarily in Mainland
China, where it appears frequently in school music textbooks, as well as being played on various festive
occasions.

Cassado (1897- 1966): Cello Sonata in A minor
Cello: Sharon Maennl; Piano: Neil Semmler
I. Lento ma non troppo, Allegro
II. Aragonesa: Presto ma non troppo (tempo comodo)
III. Saeta: Grave
IV. Paso = doble: Allegro (ritmico e capriccioso)
Cassadó, born in Barcelona, was a pupil of Pablo Casals and studied composition with Manuel De Falla
and Maurice Ravel. In 1925, he composed the Cello Sonata in A Minor. The first movement, titled
Rapsodia, features highly contrasting moods, an extravagant expression of sentiment. However rather
than being free flowing in structure, it is in sonata form.
The following movements are Spanish dances. The Aragonesa is a folk courtship dance from Aragon in
the Northeast of Spain, in 3/4 time and is capricious in character. The Saeta is a song of Catholic
Andalusia, sung often from a balcony addressed to the statue of Jesus below or that of His suffering
mother Mary. These statues are mounted on platforms and carried along the shoulders of several
penitents passing in the procession of Holy Week. It has a plaintive, highly emotional intensity and has
the melismas and tercios taken from flamenco music. The Paso Doble (Spanish- Double Step) is a fast
rhythmic dance in 2/4 time.

CHAMBER MUSIC CONCERTS
Balmain: 5 pm Saturday 26 October 2024
Kirribilli: 3 pm Sunday 03 November 2024

Maurice Ravel (1875 - 1937): Pièce en Forme de Habanera
Violin: George Carrard; Piano: Christine Edwards
In 1907 Ravel wrote the Habanera as a blindingly difficult virtuoso exercise for the bass voice. Later
he transcribed it for cello and piano. The piece is so popular that the piano part has been matched to
many other instruments including violin, flute, clarinet, and saxophone.
Frédéric Chopin (1810 – 1849): Cello Sonata Op. 65
(1) Allegro Moderato (3) Largo
Cello: Lye Lin Ho; Piano: Brandon Scherrer

Concert organiser Neil Semmler
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors)
For information on future concerts, see
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information.

The Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
16-18 Fitzroy St Kirribilli

Campbell St Presbyterian Church
7 Campbell St Balmain

