Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— PROGRAM —
CHRISTMAS MUSIC
Orlando di Lasso Magnificat primi toni
Leanne Daharja Veitch I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day
Michael Praetorius In dulci Jubilo
Max Bruch Wiegenlied der Hirten
Gustaf Nordqvist Jul, jul
Cristobal de Morales Pastores Dicite
sopranos: Miriam Blatt, Sue Butler, Glenda Woolnough
altos: Jamie Chen, Patsy Short
tenors: Pat Fernandez, Peter Nickolas
basses: Ian Butler, Michael Houghton, Andrew Young

GRETCHANINOV In aller Frühe, Op. 126b
1. Morning Stroll, 2. Homesickness, 3. The Joker,
4. Twilight, 5. Little Horseman, 6. On Winter’s Eve,
7. Burlesque, 8. In a Fortress, 9. Thieves and Policeman, 10. Waltz.
cello Clara Blazer piano Christine Edwards

RAVEL Pièce en Forme de Habanera
violin George Carrard

piano Christine Edwards

TELEMANN Quartet in D minor from “Tafelmusik II”
(1) Andante (2) Vivace (3) Largo (4) Allegro
violins Jenny Allison Hanako Ward
cello Anne Harris Stevens harpsichord Sue Butler

VIVALDI Concerto for Two Violins in D minor RV 565
(1) Allegro (2) Molto Adagio (3) Allegro (4) Largo (5) Allegro
violins Regula Scheidegger George Carrard
piano Christine Edwards
— REFRESHMENTS —
concert organiser Sue Butler
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors)
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information

- Notes ORLANDO DI LASSO (1530 – 1594) Magnificat primi toni
Born in Mons, Lasso went to Italy at the age of twelve and worked as a singer and composer
for courts in Mantua, Sicily, Milan, Naples and Rome. He then settled Munich in 1563 and
remained there for the rest of his life.
The Magnificat sets the words of Mary from the gospel of Luke. It is usually sung as part of the
Vesper service. This setting alternates verses between plainchant and four parts.
LEANNE DAHARIA VEITCH (1970 -) I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day (2011)
I heard the bells on Christmas Day is based on the 1864 poem “Christmas Bells” by American
poet Longfellow, and is set for SATB a cappella choir. The beautiful poem “Christmas Bells”
was written by Longfellow during the American Civil War (1861 - 1865). Longfellow was
inspired to write the classic text after two family tragedies: the loss of his wife, who died as a
result of accidental fire; and the severe wounding of his son Charles during the Mine Run
Campaign. For quite a while I’ve wanted to set this particular text, because I felt that the
current musical settings available (of which there are a few) did not do the text justice. I felt
that, although they are beautiful pieces in their own right, they do not reflect the deep sense of
sadness and despair I read from the text. I wanted to write a work that conveyed the meaning
that the poem gives to me. “Christmas Bells” was first set to music in1872, but I feel that none
of the setting (of which I am aware) truly evoke the sadness that I feel when I learn of the story
of “Christmas Bells”, and feel the deep sense of despair and confusion, as well as questioning
of faith, that is conveyed by Longfellow’s words, as well as the final powerful, heart-felt
declamation that, despite all, faith and God - and good - will prevail, despite the atrocities of
the world. - Leanne Veitch (on cpdl.org)
MICHAEL PRAETORIUS (?1571 – 1621) In dulci Jubilo
Praetorius was the youngest son of a Lutheran pastor, born in Creuzburg in present-day
Thuringia. He first studied divinity and philosophy as well as receiving an education in music.
He worked in a number of towns before moving to Dresden where he heard the latest Italian
music.
In dulci jubilo dates from the Middle Ages, possibly written by Heinrich Seuse in about 1328.
According to folklore, Seuse heard angels singing these words and joined them in a dance. The
tune appears in a manuscript in the Leipzig University Library and dates from about 1400.
MAX BRUCH (1838 – 1920) Wiegenlied der Hirten
Though Bruch is mainly known today for his violin works, he composed in all genres and in
his lifetime his choral music was well regarded. This song is based on a German folk tune and
its text dates back to the sixteenth century.
GUSTAF NORDQVIST (1886 – 1949) Jul, jul (1921)
Nordqvist was born in Stockholm and his early musical studies were there. In 1913 he pursued
further study in Berlin with Arthur Willner. He returned to Stockholm in 1914 and became
organist at Adolf Fredrik Church, where he remained for the rest of his life. He was also a
professor at the Royal College of Music, Stockholm.
Jul, Jul was published in 1921 and is his best known composition, setting a text by Edvard
Evers.
CRISTOBAL DE MORALES (c. 1500 - 1553) Pastores Dicite
Born in Seville, Morales became a singer in the Papal choir in Rome by 1535. Ten years later
he returned to Spain and held several positions. While he was famous as a composer he seems
to have been a difficult employee.

ALEXANDER GRETCHANINOV (1864-1956) In aller Frühe, Op.126b
Alexander Gretchaninov was a Russian Romantic composer. He studied at the Moscow
Conservatory with Taneyev and Arensky, and moved to St Petersburg where he studied
composition and orchestration with Rimsky-Korsakov.
Around 1876, he returned to Moscow and was involved in writing for the theatre, the opera
and the Russian Orthodox Church. His works, especially those for voice, achieved
considerable success within Russia, while his instrumental works enjoyed even wider acclaim.
His output included 5 symphonies. 4 string quartets. 2 piano trios, sonatas for violin, cello,
clarinet, piano and balalaika, several operas and a number of small scale piano pieces.
In aller Frühe (Early Morning), Op. 126b, is a set of 10 short pieces. A miniature version of
Mussorgsky’s “Pictures at an Exhibition” if you like, or a little sketch-book collection.
Op.126 was originally written for violin and piano. Today we will play an arrangement for cello
and piano.

CHAMBER MUSIC CONCERT
3 pm Sunday 1 December 2024

MAURICE RAVEL (1875 - 1937) Pièce en Forme de Habanera
In 1907 Ravel wrote the Habanera as a blindingly difficult virtuoso exercise for the bass voice.
Later he transcribed it for cello and piano. The piece is so popular that the piano part has
been matched to many other instruments including violin, flute, clarinet, and saxophone.
GEORGE PHILIPP TELEMANN (1681-1767) Quartet in D minor from "Tafelmusik
II" TWV 43:d1
Telemann, though perhaps overshadowed by Bach and Handel in his day, has emerged as a
highly respected Baroque composer with strong individuality evident in the structure and harmonisation of his music. There is always a twist in his harmonies that gives character to his
music. Telemann was a close personal friend of J.S.Bach and the godfather to his son, C.P.E
Bach. He was mostly self-taught but could play a range of instruments. He was a prolific composer. The Tafelmusik, composed in 1733, is a collection of chamber music pieces for various
ensembles organised in 3 parts with continuo. The pieces in the collection display a wide variety of styles.
ANTONIA VIVALDI (1678-1761) Concerto for Two Violins in D minor RV 565
Vivaldi was born 1678 in the republic of Venice. Aged 11 he played alongside his father in San
Marco Basilica. At 18 he was ordained as a priest and, in the same year, appointed violin
teacher at del Pietà orphanage. Aged 24 he stood in for the head music teacher (who was
away) and was congratulated by the visiting king of Norway and Denmark, to whom he dedicated his L estro Harmonico Op 3 (The Harmonic Inspiration, published in Amsterdam two
years later) a set of 12 concertos for stringed instruments; this work was a landmark in the development of the concerto form and influenced composers throughout Europe.
Today we will hear the Concerto for Two Violins in D minor RV 565, the eleventh in Op
3. Highlights are close imitation between the two violins in the opening, and a fugue in the
second Allegro.
J S Bach, who was seven years younger than Vivaldi, transcribed many of Vivaldi’s
works. This process would have been a way of learning from Vivaldi. Bach’s famous D-minor
Concerto for Two Violins owes something to Vivaldi’s influence and goes a step further.

Steve Lohman
lineartgallery.com

The Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
16-18 Fitzroy St Kirribilli

Orlando di Lasso (1530 – 1594) Magnificat primi toni
1. Magnificat, anima mea, Dominum

1. My soul doth magnify the Lord

2. et exultavit spiritus meus in Deo, salutari meo.

2. and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.

3. Quia respexit humilitatem ancillæ suæ:

3. For he hath regarded: the lowliness of his handmaiden.

ecce enim ex hoc beatam me dicent omnes generationes.

For behold, from henceforth: all generations shall call me blessed.

4. Quia fecit mihi magna, qui potens est, et sanctum nomen
eius,
5. et misericordia eius a progenie in progenies timentibus eum.

4. For he that is mighty hath magnified me: and holy is his Name.

6. Fecit potentiam in brachio suo,

6. He hath showed strength with his arm:

dispersit superbos mente cordis sui.

5. And his mercy is on them that fear him: throughout all generations.

he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.

7. Deposuit potentes de sede et exaltavit humiles;

7. He hath put down the mighty from their seat: and hath exalted the
humble and meek.

8. esurientes implevit bonis et divites dimisit inanes.

8. He hath filled the hungry with good things: and the rich he hath sent
empty away.

9. Suscepit Israel puerum suum recordatus misericordiæ suæ,

9. He remembering his mercy hath holpen his servant Israel

10. sicut locutus est ad patres nostros, Abraham et semini eius
in sæcula.
11. Gloria Patri, et Filio, et Spiritui Sancto

10. as he promised to our forefathers, Abraham and his seed, for ever.

12. Sicut erat in principio, et nunc, et semper, et in sæcula
sæculorum. Amen.

12. As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end.
Amen.

11. Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost;

Michael Praetorius (?1571 – 1621) In dulci Jubilo
In dulci jubilo,
Nun singet und seid froh!
Unsers Herzens Wonne liegt
in praesepio,
Und leuchtet als die Sonne
Matris in gremio,
Alpha es et O!

[In quiet joy]
Now sing with hearts aglow!
Our delight and pleasure lies
[in a manger]
Like sunshine is our treasure
[in the mother's lap]
[Thou art Alpha and Omega]

Gustaf Nordqvist (1886 – 1949) Jul, jul
Jul, jul, strålande jul, glans
över vita skogar,
himmelens kronor med
gnistrande ljus,
glimmande bågar i alla Guds
hus,
psalm som är sjungen från tid
till tid,
eviga längtan till ljus och frid!
Jul, jul, strålande jul; glans
över vita skogar.

Christmas, Christmas,
glorious Christmas, shine over white
woods,
crowns of heaven with sparkling
light,
shining arches in all the houses of
God,
hymn that is sung from time to time,
eternal longing for light and peace!
Christmas, Christmas,
glorious Christmas; shine over white
forests.

Max Bruch (1838 – 1920) Wiegenlied der Hirten
Laßt uns das Kindelein wiegen,
das Herz zum Krippelein biegen!
Laßt unsern Geist erfreun,
das Kindelein benedein!
O Jesulein süß, O Jesulein süß,
O Jesulein süß, O Jesulein süß!

Let us cradle the child,
turn our hearts to the manger!
Let our spirits be happy
For the child is blessed!
O little Jesus sweet, O little Jesus
sweet,
O little Jesus sweet, O little Jesus
sweet!

Laßt uns dem Kindelein singen,
ihn unser Opfer bringen,
ihm alle Ehr beweisen
mit Loben und mit Preisen!
O Jesulein süß, …

Let us sing to the child,
bring him our gifts,
Show him all honour
with praise and with blessings!
O little Jesus sweet…

Laßt unser Stimm erschallen,
es wird dem Kindel gefallen;
Laßt ihm ein Freudlein machen,
das Kindlein wird eins lachen.
O Jesulein süß…

Let our voices ring,
it will please the child;
Let him be joyful,
the little child will laugh.
O little Jesus sweet…

Cristobal de Morales (c. 1500 - 1553) Pastores Dicite
Prima Pars
Pastores dicite, quidnam
vidistis, et annuntiate Christi
nativitatem, noe.

The First Part
Tell, shepherds, what you have seen,
and announce the birth of Christ.
Noel.

Secunda Pars
Infantem vidimus pannis
involutum et choros
angelorum laudantes
salvatorem, noe.

The Second Part
We saw the baby wrapped in
swaddling clothes and the choirs of
angels praising the saviour. Noel.

PayPal

BSB 032101
A/C 139251

