Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/
— PROGRAMME —

Short Pieces for Violin, Cello, and Piano
piano Christine Edwards
ELGAR Two Songs Op 15 - violin Regula Scheidegger
FAURÉ Après un rêve Op 7 – cello Clara Blazer
BEETHOVEN Romance No 2 in F Op 50 – violin George Carrard
30’

ELGAR (1857 - 1934) Two Songs Op 15
No 1 Evening Song No 1, Morning Song No 2 are two popular pieces for violin and piano
written in ~1890 that Elgar later orchestrated. Elgar sent his Evening Song to Jaeger, an
employee of his publisher, and bemoaned the lack of financial reward he had received for his
works. They agreed to publish it as Chanson de Nuit believing that French titles sold better.
Later they then named the companion song Chanson de Matin. Jaeger became Nimrod in
Elgar’s Enigma Variations.

FAURÉ (1845 - 1924) Après un rêve Op 7
After a dream, composed in 1887, is a setting of an anonymous Tuscan poem that Faure’s
friend, the baritone Romain Bussine, translated into French. The song describes a dream of
meeting a lover in a state of heavenly bliss, then being sadly awakened. The famous Spanish
cellist Pablo Casals transcribed it for cello and piano in 1910.

BEETHOVEN (1770 - 1827) Romance No 2 in F Op 50

HAYDN String Quartet in C Major Op 76 No 3 Hob.III:77,
two movements
(1) Allegro (2) Poco adagio, cantabile
violins Zhenquan Hua and Peirong Lin
viola James Dong cello Yi Ding
12’

HAYDN (1732 – 1809) String Quartet in C Major Op 76 No 3
Hob.III:77

Interval
5’

MOZART Sonata No 18 for Piano and Violin
in G major K301
(1) Allegro con spirito

(2) Allegretto-Minore-Maggiore

violin Regula Scheidegger

piano Christine Edwards
15’

Two Traditional Chinese Pieces
(1) CHEN and HE Butterfly Lovers
(2) Thunder in Drought
violins Zhenquan Hua and Peirong Lin
viola James Dong cello Yi Ding
8’

In Beethoven’s time the word ‘romance’ applies to pieces long enough to make a serious
statement—longer than the typical art song or concert aria; they also usually share a cantabile
quality we associate with romance—a smooth, singable, flowing line. He composed it in 1798,
a few months before the Pathetique piano sonata, when he was already aware of his increasing
deafness. He designated the tempo adagio cantabile though most people play it more
andante cantabile.

Franz Joseph Haydn was an Austrian composer of the classical period. He was instrumental
in the development of chamber music such as the string quartet and piano trio. His
contributions to musical form have led him to be called "Father of the String Quartet". From
its beginning the work has always been popular. It is a golden piece of music often performed
in many countries including Australia.
The nickname "Emperor" is so called probably because the second movement is a theme and
variations on what was at the time the anthem of the Austrian empire, which included
adjacent states: ‘God, Protect our Emperor Franz’ (Gott erhalte Franz, den Kaiser).

MOZART (1756-1791) Sonata for Piano and Violin in G major K301
In 1778,the 22 year-old Mozart and his mother left Salzburg and set out on a long journey
which culminated in Paris. Mozart was searching for new employment. He had become
restless in his post as Concertmaster to the Salzburg Court, a title that he had held since age
13. Mozart found his native Salzburg to be provincial and artistically stifling. He was paid a
low salary, and there was little call for him to write operas.
The trip opened Mozart’s ears to exciting new musical possibilities. In Munich, he heard a set
of violin sonatas by Joseph Schuster (1748–1812) and sent copies of the scores home, writing
to his sister, Nannerl, “I have often played them here; they are by no means bad. If I remain

long enough, I intend to compose six in this style, for it is much liked here.” Mozart travelled
on to Mannheim, a hotbed of musical innovation at the time. Here, he began work on a set of
violin sonatas modelled after Schuster’s. Although Mozart had already written more than 300
works in Salzburg, he chose to publish the Sonatas in Paris as “Opus 1.”
This sonata is one of several that are in two movements only. It is exceptional in having two
Allegros - there is no slow movement. The second of allegro is a graceful waltz-like piece in a
simple ternary design, with a central episode in the minor whose siciliano-like melody is
entrusted entirely to the violin. The reprise follows the plan of the opening section exactly, but
Mozart adds a little coda which brings the sonata to a close of considerable charm.

CHEN (1935 -) and HE (1933 -) Butterfly Lovers
The Butterfly Lovers arranged for String Quartet utilises some traditional Chinese techniques
and styles to create a sound suitable for its story. Among them are the use of melodies from
Chinese folk songs and from a well-known Chinese opera version of the Butterfly Lovers story.
Across the music story we can feel Zhu and Liang meeting in childhood, attending school
together, and growing closer. The story turns tragic as Zhu is betrothed to another man. Later
Liang is depressed, becomes ill, and dies. On the way to Zhu’s wedding ceremony the welcome
team passed Liang’s tomb and are hindered by a sudden strong wind. Zhu enters the tomb,
which collapses crushing her to death. The story ends with the lovers’ spirits emerging as
butterflies.

Thunder in Drought
Han Tian Lei in Chinese Pinyin, is a cheerful piece, originating from the Guangdong province
(south China) in 1921. It is farmers’ plea to the gods for rain, and is used as transitional music
between scenes in Canton Opera.

concert organiser George Carrard
$15 admission, $10 concession/seniors
Next concert: Sunday 7 July. Please check acms-australia.org/index.php/concerts for details
when available, or go to acms-australia.org and click on the tabs.
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit acms-australia.org for more information.

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Two Chamber Music Concerts
in May 2024
3 pm Sunday 19 May at 16 Fitzroy St
Kirribilli
5 pm Sat 25 May at the Presbyterian
Church, 7 Campbell St, Balmain

