ACMS
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— WOMEN COMPOSERS’ WORKS —
3pm Sunday 25 February 2024
Kirribilli Centre, 16 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.thekirribillicentre.org tel: 9922 4428

— PROGRAM —
EMILIE MAYER Quartet in G minor, Op 14
(1) Allegro appassionata
(2) Scherzo: Allegro assai - Un poco piu lento
(3) Adagio con molta espressione (4) Allegro molto
violins Miriam Blatt and Linda Fox
viola Marian Arnold cello Lye Lin Ho

MÉLANIE BONIS Suite
(1) Sérénade (2) Pastorale
(3) Scherzo
flute Beate Birr violin Miriam Blatt
piano Beatrice Kuyumgian-Rankin

AMANDA RÖNTGEN-MAIER Piano Trio in Eb
(1) Allegro (2) Scherzo
(3) Andante (4) Allegro con fuoco
violin Miriam Blatt cello Clara Blazer piano Patricia Short

— REFRESHMENTS —

In anticipation of International Women’s Day, 8 March, we perform works by
brilliant women who deserve wider recognition.

EMILIE MAYER (1812 – 1883) Quartet in G minor, Op 14
Emilie Mayer was one of the most significant female composers of the 19th century. Highly celebrated
in her time, she was widely regarded as the "female Beethoven”. Her works were performed during her
lifetime in cities including Brussels, Lyon, Budapest, Dessau, Halle, Leipzig, and Munich.
She was born in Germany, the fourth child of a pharmacist. Her mother died when she was 2. She
began studying piano at age 5, while also being in charge of many household responsibilities looking
after her siblings. Her father committed suicide when she was 28, leaving a large inheritance she used
to finance her musical studies. In addition to music, she was also a talented sculptor. When she
eventually died, she was buried in Berlin in the same church as Fanny and Felix Mendelssohn. Mayer's
harmonies are characterized by sudden shifts in tonality and the frequent use of seventh chords, with
the diminished seventh allowing Mayer to reach a variety of resolutions. She composed a large number
of works, including eight symphonies and seven string quartets.
MÉLANIE BONIS (1858 – 1937) Suite
Mélanie taught herself piano despite her family, who eventually gave in and allowed her to study at age
12. At age 16 she continued her studies at the conservatory with Cesar Franck. She studied harmony
and composition alongside students including Debussy. Because of the prejudices of the times, she used
the name Mel, to be able to publish her works. Her parents disapproved of her partner Amédée Hettich
who sang, wrote poetry, and was a music critic. They pulled her out of the conservatory, and married
her off to Albert Domange, a businessman 22 years her senior who did not like music. Three years later
Hettich reappeared and encouraged her to resume composition. Saint-Saens was a great admirer of her
composition skills.
AMANDA RÖNTGEN-MAIER (1853 – 1894) Piano Trio in Eb
Amanda Maier grew up in Sweden, studying violin and piano. At the age of 16 she entered the Royal
College of Music in Stockholm, where she studied violin, organ, piano, cello, composition and
harmony. She graduated in 1873, the first woman ever to receive the degree of Musikdirektor from the
institution. Throughout the 1870s her career flourished both in violin performance and composition. In
1880 she married the German-Dutch pianist and composer Julius Röntgen, her violin teacher's son, and
settled in Amsterdam. This ended her performing career. However, she continued to compose, and
organized salon concerts attended by Clara Schumann, Joachim, Grieg and Brahms.

www.thekirribillicentre.org

Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/

Women Composers’ Works
3 pm Sunday 25 February 2024
concert organiser Miriam Blatt
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information

The Kirribilli Centre

