ABOUT THE MUSIC…
ANTONIN DVOŘÁK (1841-1904) Piano Trio no.2 in G minor Op.26

— PROGRAM —
VIVALDI Sonata no.1 in B flat RV47
arranged for Alto Flute & Piano (James Guthrie)
(1) Largo ma non troppo (2) Allegro
(3) Largo Maestoso (4) Allegro
alto flute Luis Rudenas piano Ben Chan

DVOŘÁK Piano Trio no.2 in G minor Op.26
(2) Largo (3) Scherzo
violin Linda Fox cello Mitchell Quinn
piano Patsy Short

FRANCISCO MIGNONE Two Waltzes from 16 Waltzes
for Solo Bassoon
(1) Mistério (2) Valsa da outra esquina
bassoon Chris Palmer

BRAHMS Violin Sonata No.1 in G major Op.78
(1) Vivace ma non troppo (2) Adagio
(3) Allegro molto moderato
violin Tracy Tsang piano Ben Chan
— refreshments —
concert organiser Ben Chan
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors) to cover costs
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information

The second Dvorak Piano Trio opus 26 in G minor, written in 1876 when the
composer was thirty-four, is a celebration of melodic invention with a Slavic
spin. With an economy of material passed between the players, varied and developed, Dvorak presents tightly constructed sections which somehow maintain the improvised spontaneity of folk music. Today we will play the middle
two movements, the Largo and Scherzo.
The Largo is built on two ideas - the opening melody in E flat on the cello and a
drum beat rhythmic figure in the bass giving the movement a processional
character. Chromatic passages threaten to up-end the tonality, but the drum
beat pulls it back, and transforms into high repeated notes. The Scherzo, in G
minor in three-four time, is built around a five-bar phrase passed around the
instruments at speed. Canonical passages sound as though the instruments
barge in, not waiting their turn. The fast activity is briefly interrupted by a slow
version of the same melody, this time in two-four time, a thoughtful moment,
before the fast-paced resumes. A calm trio in G major contrasts in mood, until
the Scherzo repeats, dancing to the end.
FRANCISCO MIGNONE (1897-1986) Mistério, Valsa da outra esquina from
16 Waltzes for Solo Bassoon
The Brazilian composer, Francisco Mignone (1897 - 1986) was a significant
figure in Brazilian classical music and is often credited with inheriting the
mantel of Villa-Lobos. His 16 Waltzes for solo bassoon, published in 1981, are
comparable to the Bach cello suites, in that they explore exhaustively the
technical and expressive possibilities of one solo instrument. These pieces will
inevitably become part of every young bassoonist’s repertoire in the future. The
two that Chris will play today are Mistério and Valsa da outra equina,
translating as “Mysterious” and “Waltz of the Other Corner”.

JOHANNES BRAHMS (1833-1897) Violin Sonata No.1 in G major, Op.78
Johannes Brahms’ Violin Sonata No. 1 in G major, Op. 78, composed in 1879,
reflects a pivotal period in his career. By this time, Brahms had established
himself as one of the leading composers of the Romantic era, known for his
mastery of classical forms infused with a deeply expressive, Romantic spirit.
The sonata was written during a fruitful period in which Brahms was deeply
inspired by the folk music of his native Germany, evident in the sonata’s lyrical
melodies and rich harmonic textures.
Brahms’ Violin Sonata No. 1 unfolds in three movements, each showcasing his
distinctive blend of structural rigor and emotional depth. The opening Vivace
ma non troppo movement exudes warmth and lyricism, featuring a dialogue
between the violin and piano that ranges from joyful exuberance to
introspective reflection. The Adagio second movement transports listeners with
its tender, introspective melodies, while the concluding Allegro molto moderato
combines classical form with Romantic expression, culminating in a

triumphant affirmation of thematic unity and musical richness. Brahms’
sonata stands as a testament to his profound understanding of chamber
music, offering performers and audiences alike a profound journey through its
nuanced emotions and technical brilliance.

Chamber Music Concert
3pm Sunday 7 July 2024
The Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
18 Fitzroy St Kirribilli NSW 2061
www.thekirribillicentre.org

