– NOTES –

— PROGRAMME —
Antonio Vivaldi (1678 – 1741)
Concerto in G Minor for Two Cellos and Piano, RV531
Cello Primo: Clara Blazer Cello
Secondo: Lye-Lin Ho

(1) Allegro (2) Largo

(3) Allegro

10’

Edvard Grieg (1843 – 1907)
Violin Sonata No. 2, Op. 13
Violin: Regula Scheidegger
Piano: Christine Edwards

(1) Lento doloroso – Allegro Vivace (2) Allegretto tranquillo
Allegro animato

(3)

20’

Felix Mendelssohn (1809 – 1847)
Piano Trio No. 2, Op. 66
Violin Pam Hepworth Cello Lye-Lin Ho
Piano Brandon Scherrer

(1) Allegro energico e con fuoco (2) Andante espressivo (3) Scherzo:
Molto allegro quasi presto (4) Finale: Allegro appassionato
30’

Antonio Vivaldi (1678 – 1741) Concerto in G Minor for Two Cellos and Piano, RV531
Sometimes just a plain list of facts tells a better story…
Antonio Vivaldi nicknamed the ‘Red Priest’ because of his hair colour often left the altar
during mass due to asthma. Vivaldi was employed by the Ospedale della Pieta in Venice
during the years 1703-1715 and 1723-1740. His duties were to teach and to compose for
the girls at the orphanage. All we know is that this concerto RV531 was composed sometime
in the 1720’s. The violinist Anna Maria de la Pieta was born before 1700 and died in 1782.
Vivaldi dedicated 28 violin concertos to her. Anna Maria not only played the violin but also
the CELLO, oboe, lute, mandolin, harpsichord and viola d’amore. She composed and was
an outstanding performer with an enviable reputation. Anna Maria NEVER left the
Ospedale della Pieta. How did she enter? Through a little hole in the wall of the Ospedale,
specifically made for putting unwanted babies through. Not all babies were small enough
to fit! Babies that didn’t fit were left to die. Male orphans were taught a trade. Female
orphans were trained in music. Life was brutal in the Venice of this time and even more so
within the Ospedale. Physical abuse, neglect and disease were rife but musical training
when Vivaldi was present was brilliant.
Edvard Grieg (1843 – 1907) Violin Sonata No. 2, Op 13
Just two years separatwa e Grieg's first violin sonata from his second, the Sonata for Violin
and Piano No. 2 in G major, Op. 13 (1867). These were eventful years for the young
composer, during which he married, fully took up the cause of Norwegian nationalist music
including use and development of Norwegian folk music, and began to make his name
known around Europe.
Like the first sonata, this Sonata in G major is in three movements, of which the first is the
longest. It opens with a gloomy Lento doloroso introduction in the minor mode, in which
the main theme of the upcoming, major-mode Allegro vivace body of the movement is
tentatively voiced by the violin in a kind of quasi-cadenza. The second movement is an
elegant and delicate Allegretto tranquillo in ABA form, with outer sections in E minor and
the inner panel in E major. From time to time the piano imitates the strummed chords of
a guitar or lute. Short phrases with grace notes and triplets are suggestive of bird calls.
Grieg crafts something of a light, peasant dance for theAllegro animato finale.
This Sonata was dedicated to fellow composer and violinist Johan Svendsen, although it
was premiered by Gudbrand Bohn with the composer at the piano, in the autumn of 1867.

Light refreshments to follow (wine, juice and savouries)

Felix Mendelssohn (1809 – 1847) Piano Trio No. 2, Op. 66
This piece echoes characteristics of Mendelssohn’s colleagues. The relenting internal agitato
quintessential of Beethoven, the sonorities of Brahms, the virtuosic-piano flourishes of
Liszt, the playfulness of Mozart (Schumann actually described Mendelssohn to be the
Mozart of the 19th century!) and the heartbreak of Schumann, Mendelssohn does it all
within the scope of this (not so humble) piano trio. Mendelssohn’s privileged upbringing
provided him with extensive musical training which he mastered in prodigious style. He
can also be credited with thrusting Bach back into the limelight. At just 20 years of age, he
rehearsed and conducted a performance of St. Matthew’s Passion, an Oratorio by Bach not
heard by the German public in a century! The concert was an immense success and
brought Bach deservingly back to the forefront of musical significance.

Chamber Music Concert Amateur
Chamber Music Society

Sunday November 2: Neighbourhood Centre
16-18 Fitzroy St, Kirribilli, 3:00 pm
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors)

Tickets

https://www.trybooking.com/DGDWN
programme notes by Clara Blazer, Christine Edwards and Brandon Scherrer
To get information on future concerts, go to the website www.acms-australia.org. If
you would like to play in a future concert please become an ACMS member.
Musicians of all skill levels are welcome. Visit our website for more information.

Steve Lohman lineartgallery.com

