Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— PROGRAM —
HÉLÈNE LIEBMANN Grand Trio in A major Op 11
(1) Allegro (2) Andante
(3) Polonaise
violin Miriam Blatt cello Clara Blazer
piano Patricia Short
20’

MIRIAM HYDE Trio for Flute, Clarinet and Piano
(1) Allegro Giocoso (2) Andante Calmo
(3) Allegro Spiritoso
flute Beate Birr clarinet Kath Hunter
piano Miriam Blatt
11’

ELFRIDA ANDRÉE Piano Quartet
(1) Allegro molto moderato (2) Andante con moto
(3) Finale: Allegro moderato
violin Linda Fox viola Miriam Blatt
cello Mitchell Quinn piano Brandon Scherrer
23’

— Refreshments —
[Kirribilli only]

- Notes HÉLÈNE LIEBMANN (1795-1869) Grand Trio in A major Op 11
Helene Liebmann, nee Riese was born in Berlin, where she received an excellent
musical education in piano and composition. Lauded as a child prodigy—performing
in public by age 12—she studied with the best teachers available, including Franz
Lauska (a former student of Clementi), Joseph Augustin Gürrlich, and Ferdinand
Ries (a famous pupil of Beethoven). In 1811, an Allgemeine musikalische Zeitung
review of her opuses. 1 and 2 compared her music to the early works of the great
masters, as opposed to the expected “weak imitation of music written by men.”
Between the ages of 15 and 21 she published a series of works. Nothing is known
about her life after her marriage in 1813. The last mention of the composer is found
in March 1835 when she met Clara Schumann in Hamburg.
This trio is reminiscent of Clementi's delicate but melodious piano writing, but has
advanced the composition by writing equally balanced virtuosic parts for the violin
and cello throughout."
MIRIAM HYDE AO OBE (1913-2005) Trio for Flute, Clarinet and Piano (1948)
Dr. Miriam Hyde, a prominent Australian pianist and composer, was born in
Adelaide. She won a scholarship to study at the Elder Conservatorium and to
continue her studies at the Royal College of Music in London, where she excelled in
piano and composition. Returning to Australia, she became a key figure in the
Sydney music scene, working as a pianist, composer, teacher, and examiner. Dr.
Hyde performed extensively – e.g. her 2nd piano concerto with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, and numerous broadcasts with ABC Radio and 2MBS. She composed a
wide range of music, and received numerous accolades, including the OBE and AO.
She also wrote educational materials, and 500 poems. Film Australia produced a
documentary of her life on SBS Television. She continued to be active in music into
her later years, and her legacy is celebrated through her contributions to music and
her inspiring life story. Dr. Hyde left a lasting impact on the musical world.
This beautiful inspirational trio was composed at the request of a flautist from
Adelaide who needed a piece for a broadcasting engagement.
ELFRIDA ANDRÉE (1841-1929) Piano Quartet (1870)
Elfrida Andrée was a Swedish organist, composer, and conductor.
Andrée was born in Visby. She was the pupil of Ludvig Norman and Niels Wilhelm
Gade. An activist in the Swedish women's movement, she was one of the first female
organists to be officially appointed in Scandinavia. She began work in Stockholm in
1861 and became the organist at Gothenburg Cathedral in 1867. For her services,
she was elected to the Royal Swedish Academy of Music. She died in Gothenburg.
Andrée's compositions include a piano quartet in A minor (1870) and a piano quintet
in E minor (published in 1865), a piano trio in G minor (1887) (and another
published posthumously in C minor), a string quartet in D minor from 1861 and

another in A major, pieces for violin (including sonatas in E flat and B flat major) in
addition to works for piano and orchestra and vocal.
Her piano quartet showcases her lyrical Romantic style, rich harmonies, and
expressive melodies, blending influences from the late 19th-century European
tradition with her distinctive voice.

CHAMBER MUSIC CELEBRATING
INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY
PayPal

3pm Sunday 2 March 2025 Kirribilli
3pm Saturday 8 March 2025 Balmain

BSB 032101
A/C 139251
concert organiser Miriam Blatt
light refreshments (wine, juice and savouries)
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors)
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information.
The Kirribilli Neighbourhood Centre
16-18 Fitzroy St Kirribilli
www.thekirribillicentre.org
Campbell St Church
Campbell St, Balmain
www.campbellstreetchurch.com.au/

Steve Lohman
lineartgallery.com

