— PROGRAMME —

– NOTES –

Ludwig van Beethoven (1770 – 1827)
Symphony No. 5 Op. 67, Arranged for Piano Trio

Ludwig van Beethoven (1770 – 1827) Symphony No. 5 Op. 65, Arranged for Piano Trio
We open this afternoon’s concert with the most recognisable motif in western art-music, duhduh-duh-dum! Beethoven completed his 5th symphony in 1808. In this arrangement the piano
part was transcribed for solo piano by Franz Liszt - who also generously arranged all nine of
Beethoven's symphonies for both piano solo and for two pianos. In the 19th century and to the
credit of the industrial revolution, middle-class families could afford to purchase pianos and with
Liszt’s transcriptions, they were able to listen to Beethoven symphonies in the comfort of their
own home (provided that they could play it!). The string part has been arranged by Joshua Choe
which was based on Liszt’s transcriptions.

(1) Allegro con brio

Violin and Cello Part: Arranged by Joshua Choe
Piano Part: Arranged by Franz Liszt (1811 – 1886)

Violin Pam Hepworth Cello Lye-Lin Ho
Piano Brandon Scherrer
8’

Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756 – 1791)
Piano Trio in C Major, K. 548
(1) Allegro

(2) Andante Cantabile

(3) Allegro:

Violin Jenny Allison
Cello Clara Blazer
Piano Ludwig Sugiri
15’

Felix Mendelssohn (1809 – 1847)
Piano Trio No. 2, Op. 66
(1) Allegro energico e con fuoco (2) Andante espressivo (3) Scherzo:
Molto allegro quasi presto (4) Finale: Allegro appassionato
Violin Pam Hepworth Cello Lye-Lin Ho
Piano Brandon Scherrer
30’

Franz Schubert (1797 – 1828)
Rondo in A Major for Piano Four-Hands, Op. 107, D. 951
(1) "Grand Rondeau"
Piano Primo Brandon Scherrer
Piano Secondo Sue Butler
10’

Light refreshments to follow (wine, juice and savouries)

The first movement presented is in traditional sonata form. An exposition introduces two main
themes in contrasting keys, the development expands these themes and the recapitulation
restates the main themes in the tonic key. The coda draws the piece to a conclusion. The themes
are easily memorable and Beethoven’s genius shines as he developments a simple four-note motif
into a rich harmonic roller-coaster.
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756 – 1791) Piano Trio in C Major, K. 548
“Nobody knows why or for whom Mozart wrote his C major piano trio, or indeed what was the
occasion of its early performances. In June 1788 he had asked Michael Puchberg, fellow mason
and his benevolent patron, "when are we to have a little musical party at your house again? I
have written a new trio!" (K.542 in E). So the C major, written a month later, might have been
aimed at a similar occasion. Alternatively, the two trios may have been intended as additional
items in concerts of his recently written 39th and 40th Symphonies.”
(Programme notes by Charles Darwin) Source:
https://users.sussex.ac.uk/~cjd/WebProgNotes/pdfs/MozartK548.pdf
Felix Mendelssohn (1809 – 1847) Piano Trio No. 2, Op. 66
This piece echoes characteristics of Mendelssohn’s colleagues. The relenting internal agitato
quintessential of Beethoven, the sonorities of Brahms, the virtuosic-piano flourishes of Liszt, the
playfulness of Mozart (Schumann actually described Mendelssohn to be the Mozart of the 19th
century!) and the heartbreak of Schumann. Mendelssohn does it all within the scope of this (not
so humble) piano trio. Mendelssohn’s privileged upbringing provided him with extensive musical
training which he mastered in prodigious style. He can also be credited was thrusting Bach back
into the limelight. At just 20 years of age, he rehearsed and conducted a performance of St.
Matthew’s Passion, an Oratorio by Bach not heard by the German public in a century! The
concert was an immense success and renewed interest in Bach as a giant of classical music.
Franz Schubert (1797– 1828) Rondo in A Major for Piano Four-Hands, Op. 107, D. 951
Schubert’s Rondo, D. 951 was completed in 1828, the last year of his life. During Schubert’s
lifetime, families could begin to afford and access pianos which motivated Schubert to produce
a generous output for piano duets – far more than any of his contemporaries. The composition
presented here is wonderful evidence as to why Liszt himself called Schubert “the most poetic
musician who ever lived.” Schubert’s idol was Beethoven, whom he adored but was also
intimidated by. He wrote once that he saw Beethoven across the room in a crowded coffee house
but did not have the courage to approach him.

Chamber Music Concert
Amateur Chamber Music Society

Sunday July 6: Neighbourhood Centre 16-18
Fitzroy St, Kirribilli, 3:00 pm
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors)

Scan the QR Code to purchase tickets!

https://www.trybooking.com/DCOFO
concert organiser and programme notes by Brandon Scherrer
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org. All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information.

Steve Lohman
lineartgallery.com

