Amateur Chamber Music Society
http://www.acms-australia.org/concerts/

— PROGRAM —
MOZART Flute Concerto in G major KV 313
(1) Allegro maestoso
flute Luis Rudenas
piano Christine Edwards
15’

G.P. TELEMANN Trio Sonata in C Minor TWV 42:c2
(1) Largo (2) Vivace (3) Andante
(4) Allegro
flute Alex Chervonsky
violin Tassia Kolesnikow
viola-da-gamba Jane Grimm
harpsichord Peter Nickolas
12’

C.P.E. BACH Organ Sonata in G Minor Wq 70/6 (H 87)
(1) Allegro Moderato (2) Adagio (3) Allegro
organ Peter Nickolas
10’

C.P.E. BACH Trio Sonata in A major Wq 146
(1) Allegretto (2) Andante (3) Vivace
flute Alex Chervonsky
violin Tassia Kolesnikow
viola-da-gamba Jane Grimm
harpsichord Peter Nickolas
13’

- Notes MOZART (1756-1791) Flute Concerto No 1 (1777)
Born in Salzburg, Mozart showed a prodigious ability from his earliest childhood.
Mozart was a prolific and influential composer of the Classical Period.
The Flute Concerto No 1 was commissioned by an amateur flautist F. Dejean in
1777 when Mozart visited Paris with his mother.
The first movement is written in sonata form. The main theme of the movement is
considered a ritornello and returns many times throughout the movement in both
the piano and the flute part in this presentation.
Mozart was required to compose more flute concerti and quartets but didn’t
complete them all at this stage.
The Cadenza at the end was composed by Jean Pierre Rampal (1922-2000), the most
famous French flautist who popularised the flute in the post World II years. All of
Rampal’s works are excellent for flute playing.
G.P. TELEMANN Trio Sonata in C Minor TWV 42:c2
Telemann was one of the most prolific and versatile German composers of the
Baroque era. A contemporary and close friend of J.S. Bach, he was admired across
Europe for his mastery of various national styles—French, Italian, and German—and
for his innovation in both sacred and secular music.
His chamber music, especially his trio sonatas, was widely popular and influential in
his time. This Trio Sonata is a prime example of his mature chamber style. Its
emotional depth and structural clarity reflect Telemann’s skill in balancing Baroque
complexity with graceful accessibility.
C.P.E. BACH (1714–1788 Organ Sonata in G Minor Wq 70/6 (H 87)
Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach (1714–1788) was a German composer and the second
surviving son of Johann Sebastian Bach. His godfather was none other than Georg
Philipp Telemann who, as was customary, lent his middle name to his godson. He
was a prominent figure in the empfindsamer Stil (sensitive style), which emphasized
expressiveness and emotional nuance. He worked first under Frederick the Great in
Berlin and later in Hamburg, where he succeeded Telemann as Kapellmeister.
C.P.E. Bach was especially influential for his keyboard works, including numerous
sonatas.
The Organ Sonata performed today is part of a set of five sonatas composed between
about 1755 and 1758, for Princess Anna Amalia, who was the sister of Frederick the
Great. While the organ was mostly associated with church music, the sonatas are
secular in character and well-suited for domestic or concert performance, showing
Bach’s inventive use of the instrument outside traditional liturgical contexts.
C.P.E. BACH (1714–1788): Trio Sonata in A major Wq 146
Composed in 1731 while Bach was a student in Leipzig, the Trio Sonata in A major,
Wq 146 was later revised in 1747 during his tenure at the court of Frederick the
Great in Berlin. It showcases Bach’s early mastery of the trio sonata form, blending
Baroque counterpoint with the expressive clarity characteristic of the emerging
Classical style. The piece balances lyrical melodies with intricate interplay between
the instruments, reflecting both his heritage and his innovative spirit.

CHAMBER MUSIC CONCERT
5 pm Saturday 24 May 2025

PayPal

BSB 032101
A/C 139251
concert organiser Sue Butler
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors)
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org
All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society. Visit our website for more information.

Steve Lohman
lineartgallery.com
Presbyterian Church
Campbell St, Balmain
www.campbellstreetchurch.com.au/

