– NOTES –

— PROGRAMME —
Wilhelm Friedemann Bach (1710 – 1784)
Pastorale in A minor for oboe, bassoon and basso continuo
3’

Joseph Bodin de Boismortier (1689 – 1755)
Sonata in E minor, op. 37 no. 2
Allegro – Adagio – Allegro
7’

Giovanni Benedetto Platti (c.1692 – 1763)
Trio in C minor
Adagio – Allegro – [Mesto] – [Allegro]
9’

Joseph Bodin de Boismortier (1689 – 1755)
Sonata in D major, op. 37 no. 3
Allegro – Largo – Allegro
6’

Frederic Chopin (1810 – 1849)
Cello Sonata in G minor, op. 65
Allegro moderato – Scherzo-Trio-Scherzo – Largo – Finale
30’

Lewis Cornwell (Oboe)
Chris Bertram (Bassoon)
Priscilla Yuen (Electronic keyboard emulating harpsichord)
Mitchell Quinn (‘Cello)
Brandon Scherrer (Piano)

Light refreshments to follow (wine, juice and savouries)

Wilhelm Friedemann Bach (1710 – 1784) Pastorale in A minor for oboe, bassoon and
basso continuo
Ascribed by a reputable German publisher to W. F. Bach, this beautiful and gently sentimental
Pastorale is not included in that composer’s list of works in Grove, nor is it referred to in David
Schulenberg’s authoritative 2010 monograph. Its history is difficult to discover. Certainly, it
lacks the kind of angular melodies and restless harmonies we expect in the slow movements of
works by J. S. Bach’s eldest son. It also stands outside the typical imitative trio sonata format
that this Bach inherited from his father. In keeping with the pastoral mode suggested by the
title, this is a siciliano, characterised by its binary form, slow tempo, 6/8 metre and lilting
dotted rhythms. In observing this, we find some evidence in support of its attribution to W. F.
Bach, in that it does resemble the slow movement, titled ‘Siciliano’, of his Flute Sonata in E
minor.
Joseph Bodin de Boismortier (1689 – 1755) Sonata in E minor, op. 37 no. 2
Boismortier’s V Sonates en Trio, op. 37 were published in Paris in 1732. Geoffrey Burgess and
Bruce Haynes, in their excellent history of the oboe, remark that “more music for hautboy
survives from between 1730 and 1760 than from any other thirty-year period.” This fertile time
is associated with a shift in music from earnest baroque to accessible galant, and Burgess and
Haynes describe the ‘Louis Quinze’ style in France as combining “buoyancy, nonchalance and
frivolity with graciousness,” an apt description of Boismortier’s compositions. As a prolific and
highly successful composer of chamber music, Boismortier earned enough money to live a very
comfortable life without aristocratic patronage. Although the title page of opus 37 offers the usual
commercially motivated range of possible instrumentations, Boismortier specifies that oboe is to
be paired with bassoon, violin with cello, and flute with viola da gamba.
Giovanni Benedetto Platti (c.1692 - 1763) Trio in C minor
Giovanni Platti received his musical training in Venice, where his father was a violetta player in
the orchestra of St Mark’s Basilica. In 1722, he moved to Franconia in southern Germany to take
up a position at the court of the Prince-Bishop of Bamburg and Würzburg. He remained in that
artistically enlightened environment for the rest of his life, composing a modest number of works
ranging from harpsichord sonatas to masses. This trio is one of 22 that he is known to have
composed, but it is the only one involving oboe and bassoon. While there is evidence of his
Venetian background in the striking harmonic colours and motivic clarity of the themes, the
extended melodic ideas and
intricate dialogue between the two solo instruments are
characteristics that look ahead to the Classical era.
Joseph Bodin de Boismortier (1689-1755) Sonata in D major, op. 37 no. 3
Our second selection from Boismortier’s opus 37 is in a major key, and accordingly, the melodies
are brighter and the harmonies more broad. A feature at the end of both quick movements,
anticipated in the third movement of no. 2, is the use of a petite reprise, in which the final phrase
is repeated. A contrasting dynamic is employed so that each movement ends quietly.
Frederic Chopin (1810-1849) Cello Sonata in G minor, op. 65
The final published work in Chopin’s lifetime, composed just three years before his death (aged
39) in a state of poor health and a failing romantic relationship, the sonata is a highly expressive
work with the first movement exploring a dramatic melancholy shared by the piano and cello, a
manic scherzo in dialogue with a lyrical serenity in the second, a return to the quiet
contemplation reminiscent of his Nocturnes in the third, before finishing with a frantic and
slightly unsteady rush to the end with seemingly forced moments of levity culminating to a finally
triumphal passage. One of only 9 compositions not featuring solo piano it was performed by
Chopin in his last Paris concert in 1848 with his friend the ‘cellist Franchomme, to whom the
work was dedicated.

Chamber Music Concert
Amateur Chamber Music Society

Sunday June 14: Kirribilli Neighbourhood
Centre 16-18 Fitzroy St, Kirribilli, 3:00 pm
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors)

Tickets

https://www.trybooking.com/DMGXU
concert organiser Brandon Scherrer
To get information on future concerts, go to the website
www.acms-australia.org. All chamber music players are welcome to join the
Amateur Chamber Music Society.

Steve Lohman
lineartgallery.com

