— PROGRAMME —

– NOTES –
Sonata for Piano and Cello Op 5, No 1 and No 2 (1796)

Cello Sonata Op. 5 No 1
(1) Adagio sostenuto – Allegro (2) Rondo: Allegro vivace
cello Lye Lin Ho piano Brandon Scherrer
25’

Violin Sonata Op 12 No 1
(1) Allegro con brio (2) Theme and Variations: Andante con moto
(3) Rondo: Allegro
violin George Carrard piano Christine Edwards
20’

Cello Sonata Op. 5 No 2
(1) Adagio sostenuto ed espressivo – Allegro molto più tosto presto
(2) Rondo. Allegro
cello Clara Blazer piano Christine Edwards
25’

Light refreshments to follow (wine, juice and savouries)

The opus 5 cello sonatas are the first cello sonatas composed with a complete written
out piano part. Prior to these two sonatas, accompanying material for cello sonatas
were basso continuo and ad libitum. The two sonatas are atypical in that they are in
two, rather than the traditional three movements. An extended adagio introduction
acts as a prelude to the allegro of the first movement in both sonatas. While in
Berlin, Beethoven met the King of Prussia Fredrick Wilhelm II who was a keen
cellist. The sonatas are dedicated to Fredrick Wilhelm II who, with Beethoven at
that piano, played the sonatas in sequence at the court.
The writing for these sonatas is quintessentially early-Beethoven. He emulates the
stylistic characteristics of the Viennese school whilst expanding it in unimaginable
ways. The virtuosic piano writing was envied by his contemporaries and was so far
ahead of its time that music critiques were left bewildered, though they admired his
technical virtuosity. To their credit, he treated the pianoforte in ways that had never
been heard or seen before. The relatively conservative compositions of Mozart and
Haydn were suddenly juxtaposed with a bold and unashamedly declarative style.
His departure from established classical norms propelled Beethoven into stardom.
Beethoven's penchant for sudden loud-soft contrasts, already apparent in his first
sonata, is further developed in No. 2, plus strong accents, sometimes off-beat.
Sonata in D major for Piano and Violin Op 12 No 1 (1798)
Beethoven published this work in the same year as his celebrated piano sonata
“Pathétique” Op 13. Op 12 comprises three sonatas, which were not well received by
the critics of the time. It is possible that Beethoven's emphasis on distantly related
keys was cause for confusion among his contemporaries.
The first movement of No 1 contains great wealth of material. There are at least
three "themes" in a first group, three in a second plus a strong closing theme.
The second movement comprises a theme and variations, but each variation is more
adventurous than the previous, taking us on a tour of the outer reaches of
Beethoven’s imagination.
The third movement is a rollicking rondo, in which the main theme, built of leaps
and arpeggios, returns several times in a variety of guises.

Chamber Music Concert
Amateur Chamber Music Society

Sunday February 8: Neighbourhood Centre
16-18 Fitzroy St, Kirribilli, 3:00 pm
$15 admission ($10 concession/seniors)

Tickets

https://www.trybooking.com/DILBE

concert organiser Brandon Scherrer
To get information on future concerts, go to the website www.acms-australia.org. If you
would like to play in a future concert please become an ACMS member. Musicians of all skill
levels are welcome. Visit our website for more information.

Steve Lohman lineartgallery.com

