Clara Schumann : Ich stand in dunkeln Träumen
I stood in gloomy daydreams
and gazed at her portrait,
and that well-beloved countenance
began furtively to come to life.
About her lips there seemed to glide
a wondrous smile,
and, as if they were about to fill with nostalgic tears,
her eyes glistened.
And my tears flowed
down my cheeks
and ah, I cannot believe
that I have lost you!
Pauline Viardot : Madrid
Madrid, princess of all the Spains
Many a blue eye, many a black,
runs through your myriad lands.
The white city of serenades,
Many little feet pass
through your promenades every night.
Madrid, when your bulls are bounding,
Many a white hand applauds.
Many banners are streaming;
On your beautiful starry nights,
Many a long-veiled señora strolls
Down your blue staircases.
Madrid, Madrid, I laugh at
Your well dressed women
Shod in such narrow heels;
Because I know that none in all the world,
Neither brunette nor blonde,
is worth even the tip of her finger.
She is my Andalusian princess!
My beloved, my jealous one,
My beautiful widow in a long veil!
A true demon, an angel!
She is yellow like an orange,
Lively like a bird!
Now, if you want to know
How I made this conquest,
It was the allure of my horse,
A compliment on her mantilla
And some vanilla bonbons we shared
On a beautiful evening of carnival
Song Translations copyright © Emily Ezust, from LiederNet

About the Performers
Miriam Blatt, piano and violin, also performs on viola and voice (soprano). Retired
from the computer industry, Miriam spends half of each year in California, where
she serves on boards for Chamber Musicians of Northern California and Soiree
Musicale. Miriam has been playing a yearly concert of chamber works by women
composers since 2023.
Clara Blazer, cello, spent the first half of her life as a pianist. In the second half
she shut the piano lid and followed her passion to play cello in chamber and
orchestral groups.
Robyn Brookfield, viola and mezzo soprano, enjoyed a career including
membership of the Sydney Symphony, Melbourne Symphony and the BBC
Northern Symphony Orchestra in Manchester, UK. Her teachers included Robert
Pikler in Sydney and Cecil Aronowitz in London. She was a member of the Aeon
Ensemble for a decade. As a mezzo soprano, Robyn sang in the Leonine Consort.
She resumed singing lessons after retiring from the SSO and enjoys performing
many styles of music.
Marie Heinrich, flute, earned her PhD from the Queensland Conservatorium of
Music, Griffith University, where she specialised in intercultural music mediation
and developed a system to help musicians learn music authentically from other
cultures. Marie holds a Master of Music in Flute Performance from the Sydney
Conservatorium of Music, and undertook further postgraduate flute studies in the
United Kingdom with Trevor Wye. Marie won the 2022 National Flute Association's
Graduate Research Competition, and has delivered presentations to the University
of Würzburg and the Musicological Society of Australia, and gave lecture-recitals in
Brisbane, Sydney, and London's Royal Academy of Music.
Teléna Routh, oboe, studied with Guy Henderson at the Sydney Conservatorium.
She was awarded an Australian Arts Council scholarship, and studied in Germany
with Helmut Winschermann. Teléna has performed with the German Bach
Orchestra, Northwest German Philharmonic, Tibor Varga Chamber Orchestra,
European Bach Orchestra, Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra and the Hong Kong
Chamber Orchestra. In Australia, Teléna played in the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, the Australian Opera and Ballet Orchestra, the Australian Chamber
Orchestra, and as guest principal with the Adelaide Symphony Orchestra. She has
performed chamber music with the Sydney Mozart Players, The Amabile Players
and currently, in Windfall, a wind quintet. Telena is an examiner with the
Australian Music Examinations Board, and had an extensive teaching studio.
Brandon Scherrer, piano, is a psychologist, occasional musician and piano
teacher. In his free time he plays tennis, reads Freud, enjoys time in nature and
coordinates the Amateur Chamber Music Society’s Kirribilli concerts.
Julie Stern, violin, had a varied career starting with the Opera orchestra. After
eight years of opera and ballet she became a member of the Australian Chamber
Orchestra. After much touring overseas and around Australia it was time for a
bigger orchestra. Julie joined the SSO in 1985 and had 28 years of busy but happy
playing of orchestral music. Since leaving the orchestra she has been exploring the
wealth of chamber music.

